[Illustration]

Of the manner and extent to which he took our trumps into custody, and
came out with mean little cards at the ends of hands, before which the
glory of our Kings and Queens was utterly abased, I say nothing; nor,
of the feeling that I had, respecting his looking upon us personally in
the light of three very obvious and poor riddles that he had found out
long ago. What I suffered from, was the incompatibility between his
cold presence and my feelings towards Estella. It was not that I knew I
could never bear to speak to him about her, that I knew I could never
bear to hear him creak his boots at her, that I knew I could never bear
to see him wash his hands of her; it was, that my admiration should be
within a foot or two of him,—it was, that my feelings should be in the
same place with him,—_that_, was the agonizing circumstance.

We played until nine o’clock, and then it was arranged that when
Estella came to London I should be forewarned of her coming and should
meet her at the coach; and then I took leave of her, and touched her
and left her.

My guardian lay at the Boar in the next room to mine. Far into the
night, Miss Havisham’s words, “Love her, love her, love her!” sounded
in my ears. I adapted them for my own repetition, and said to my
pillow, “I love her, I love her, I love her!” hundreds of times. Then,
a burst of gratitude came upon me, that she should be destined for me,
once the blacksmith’s boy. Then I thought if she were, as I feared, by
no means rapturously grateful for that destiny yet, when would she
begin to be interested in me? When should I awaken the heart within her
that was mute and sleeping now?

Ah me! I thought those were high and great emotions. But I never
thought there was anything low and small in my keeping away from Joe,
because I knew she would be contemptuous of him. It was but a day gone,
and Joe had brought the tears into my eyes; they had soon dried, God
forgive me! soon dried.

