[66] The central and most refined Javanese of Mataram or Surakarta,
spoken in the Principalities, the Kadu, the Bagelen, Madioon and Kediri;
the western Javanese, spoken in Cheribon and Banyumas; the _basa_ or
_temboong pasasir_ (speech of the coast), spoken in Tagal, Pekalongan,
Samarang, Yapara and Rembang; the eastern Javanese, spoken in Surabaya,
Pasuruan, Probolinggo and Besuki.

[67] A cult with a ritual handed down from the past and scrupulously
observed. Cf. the account of a visit to Selo in 1849, published from
papers left by Dr. M. W. SCHELTEMA, in _De Gids_, December,
1909.

[68] The Javanese do not kiss in the disgusting, unwholesome, western
fashion; they smell or sniff, using the olfactory instead of the
osculatory organs, as sufficiently indicated by the words of the native
vocabulary describing the operation referred to. In this matter again,
the Hindu immigrants may have made their influence felt. Cf. Professor
E. WASHBURN HOPKINS’ interesting paper on _The Sniff-Kiss in
Ancient India_, in the _Journal of the American Oriental Society_, vol.
xxviii., first half, 1907.

[69] Including, besides the palaces and palace grounds, thickly
inhabited little towns. The _kraton_ of Surakarta contains, _e.g._,
more than ten thousand people, all belonging to the imperial family and
household, from the princes to their dependents, servants and hangers
on: court dignitaries, court functionaries, gold- and silversmiths,
wood-carvers, carpenters, masons, musicians, etc. Within its walls
is also the imperial _mesdjid_, a fine, large building with a widely
visible gilt roof.

[70] The _garebeg mulood_, _garebeg puasa_ and _garebeg besar_,
corresponding with the _maulid_ (feast of the Prophet’s birth), _id
al-fitr_ (feast of breaking the fast) and _id al-qorban_ (feast of the
sacrifice).

[71] _Krissing_, a form of capital punishment until recently still in
use in the island of Bali, consisted in driving a kris to the heart of
the condemned man, sometimes under circumstances of refined cruelty,
the executioner not being permitted to put an end to his victim’s agony
before the prince, presiding in person or by deputy, had given the
signal for the _coup de grâce_.

