The Muhammadans were not so indulgent when the Pangerans of Giri
increased in authority as spiritual leaders of their faith, successors
of Maulana Ibrahim, its first apostle in East Java. The hillock of Giri
became a centre of incitement to the holy war, particularly so under
Raden Ratu Paku or Sunan Prabu Satmoto, whose tomb is still an object
of Moslim pilgrimage.[90] With his approval, if not on his instigation,
the Muhammadan states on the north coast combined under Raden Patah of
Demak to compass the extermination of heathenism and he lived to see
the overthrow of Mojopahit, though dying shortly afterwards. If the
Moslemin yearned to gain Paradise, sword in hand, martyrs for their
Prophet’s dispensation, those of the old creed remembered the power of
_their_ gods, blowing the _sanka_, the war-shell of Vishnu, who proved
to Sugriva and Hanoman his superiority over Wali by shooting his arrow
through seven palm-trunks; who, in his fourth _avatar_, as _narasinha_,
the man-lion, ripped open the belly of the sacrilegious demon Hiranya
Kasipu. But Raden Patah, marching with his allies, marvellously helped
in the way of the Lord against the idolaters of Mojopahit, the swollen
with pride, proved to be the giant in the shape of a dwarf, Vamana,
known from their god’s fifth _avatar_, conqueror of the three worlds.
And Mojopahit, so great that the claims to the honour of her foundation,
forwarded by as many princely houses as existed in those days, were
fused in the tradition of her divine origin, her capital with its
hundred gates and shining streets and palaces, the like of which had
never been seen, having sprung from the earth in one night as a flower
at the call of the fragrant dawn,--Mojopahit was overthrown and, laments
the Javanese chronicle, the prosperity of the island disappeared. Not
the last but the strongest bulwark of Hinduïsm had ceased to exist,
bearing bitter fruit[91] of presumptuous pride indeed; the later Hindu
empires, even Balambangan, which gave so much trouble to New Mataram
and submitted only to the arms of the East India Company, leaving the
ancient creed to die of slow exhaustion in the Tengger mountains, were
nothing compared to her.

