It must be considered a miracle or evidence of the native masons
possessing a higher developed artistic sense than their employer, that
the bas-reliefs have suffered less than this extraordinary process of
restoration and preservation portended, though much detail has been
destroyed, thanks to their vandalism under orders from Batavia as
understood by the Philistine of Blitar. In the first place we find
again, divided by medallions with representations of animal life, a
sculptural delineation of the _Ramayana_, the artist’s buoyant fancy,
blending the celestial with the human, shedding a divine light on acts
of most common daily occurrence by making gods and semi-gods partake
of man’s estate in deeds sublimely natural. The _Ramayana_ was a great
favourite for the decoration of temples, as proved by the _chandis_
Panataran, Toompang, Surawana and Prambanan; the _Mahabharata_ or,
rather, its Javanese version, the _Brata Yuda_, came as a good second;
the _Arjuno Wiwaha_ of the poet Mpu Kanwa has been put to use for the
embellishment of the _chandis_ Surawana and Toompang; the _Kersnayana_
for that of the _chandis_ Toompang and Panataran. We might do worse and,
in fact, we are doing worse with our insipid epitaphs and tasteless
lapidary pomposity in our cemeteries, than adorn the tombs of our great
departed with imagery taken from our poets, tellers of good tales and
fabulists, the life they knew so well aiding us to fathom death with
its mysteries and promises. The promise most cherished by the Hindu
Javanese was that personified in Siva: death to make new life grow and
increase in beauty among mortals feeding on happiness, by reason of
Kala’s breath destroying the misery of tottering old age, raising man to
equality with the gods. That is what the people, for whom the marvellous
ancient monuments of Java were built, loved to read in the masterpieces
of their literature, carved for their benefit on the mausoleums of their
kings, heeding the wise lessons for whoso chooses to reflect, of their
_Canterbury Tales_, _Faerie Queene_, _Paradise Lost_ and _Paradise
Regained_; their _Narrenschiff_, _Dil Ulenspigel_ and _Faust_; their
_Divina Commedia_ and _Decameron_; their _Romancero del Cid_ and _Conde
Lucanor_; their _nouvelles_ and _joyeux devis_, their _vies très
horrifiques_ of their Gargantuas and Pantagruels. Life in their thought
being intimately connected with death, which consequently inspired
nothing of the abject terror the practice of western Christianity
clothes it with, in curious contrast to the saving hope of its eastern
origin, we discern cheerfulness, the effect of serene meditation, the
true _amrita_, the rejuvenating nectar of self-existent immortality,
as the keynote also to sensible earthly existence in the infinitely
varied forms inviting our examination on the walls of the _chandi_
Panataran. _Greift nur hinein ins volle Menschenleben!_ If the beholder
be a philosopher or an artist, or both, desirous to grasp the full life
of man, he will receive rare instruction; and if a _lustige Person_ as
well, joy will accrue to him from the sempiternal relevancy of Javanese
allegorical humour, at times almost prophetic: the sculptor of the
pigheaded but self-satisfied peasant who cultivates his land with a
plow drawn by crabs,[99] must have had a vision of the Dutch Government
endeavouring, after periodical visitations of worse than customary want,
misery and famine, to secure progress and prosperity in the island by
appointing long commissions with long names, toiling long years over
long reports that leave matters exactly where they were.

