From Java, says Dr. Juynboll, the _wayang poorwa_ was transplanted to
Bali, where it is still called _wayang parwa_ and the puppets present
a more human appearance. Beside it thrives, especially in Karang Asam,
the _wayang sasak_, introduced from Lombok and more Muhammadan in
character, whose puppets have longer necks after the later Javanese
fashion. Apart from such influences, Balinese art, however, does not
disown its Hindu-Javanese origin. The inhabitants of the island, with
the exception of the _Bali aga_, the aborigines in the mountains,
different in many respects, pride themselves on the name of _wong_ (men
of) Mojopahit and adhere to the Brahman religion, though here and there
a few Buddhists may be encountered. They are divided into castes and
Sivaïte rites play an important part in the religious ceremonial of the
upper classes. The common people have adopted a sort of pantheism which
makes them sacrifice in the family circle to benevolent and malevolent
spirits of land and water, domiciled in the sea, rivers, hills, valleys,
cemeteries, etc. The village temples are more specifically resorted to
for propitiation of the _jero taktu_, a superior being entrusted with
the guidance of commercial affairs and best approached through the
guardian of his shrine, who is held in greater respect than the real
priests. Every village has also a house of the dead, consecrated to
Doorga, a goddess in high repute with those desirous to dispel illness,
to secure a favourable issue of some enterprise, to learn the trend of
coming events; the heavenly lady enjoys in Bali a far wider _renommée_
than her lord and master Siva, who is honoured in six comparatively
little-frequented temples. As to the decadent architecture and excessive
ornamentation[105] of the Balinese houses of worship, Dr. Brandes
considers both the one and the other a direct outcome of the decay of
the eastern Javanese style, exemplified in the _chandis_ Kedaton (1292),
Machan Puti,[106] Surawana and Tegawangi. The leading ideas of the
_chandi bentar_ or entrance gate, and of the _paduraksa_ or middle gate,
adduces Rouffaer, are related respectively to those of the gate Wringin
Lawang at Mojopahit and of what the present day Javanese call _gapura_
in sacred edifices as old _kratons_, old burial-grounds, etc.; and to
those of the gate Bajang Ratu, also at Mojopahit. These gates Wringin
Lawang and Bajang Ratu, states the same authority further, can teach us
moreover a few things anent the architecture of the _puris_ (palaces).
The temples and princely dwellings of Mataram in Lombok were completely
destroyed during the inglorious war of 1894; the country-seat of
Narmada, however, a fine specimen of an eastern pleasance, has escaped
demolition. For how long?

