[91] _Mojo_ means “fruit”, _pahit_ means “_bitter_”.

[92] _Kerto_ means “shining, glittering”.

[93] These dates are taken from Miss MARTINE TONNET’S paper in
the _Bulletin of the Dutch Archaeological Society_ already cited, where
she calls attention to the ardent religious life in that region at that
time, as also attested to by the zodiac-beakers, mostly unearthed in
Kediri and bearing dates between 1321 and 1369.

[94] More generally known as Giovanni da Bologna, though a native of
Douay.

[95] On the summit of the Wilis are four heaps of debris and two
enclosed terraces; on its eastern slope is a place of prayer, consisting
of three terraces with bas-reliefs and called Penampihan, where the
natives still congregate for sacrifice.

[96] _Borassus flabelliformis_ of the palm family, which, though hardly
used in these times of cheap paper as a provider of writing material,
serves the natives for a hundred other purposes.

[97] Two of the eight arms were already missing in 1815 to judge from
Raffles’ reproduction.

[98] See his article, _Pictorial Art in Asia_, in the _Contemporary
Review_ of May, 1911.

[99] Bas-relief on the remains of a small building detached from the
_chandi_ Panataran proper.

[100] _Bijdrage tot de Kennis van het Javaansche Tooneel._

[101] _Kulit_ means leather, the material of which the puppets are made.

[102] The _gamelan_, as already remarked, is the Javanese orchestra, and
besides the _gamelan salendro_ and the _gamelan pelog_, the _gamelan
miring_ should be mentioned, which varies from the former in the higher
pitch of one of the five notes as produced by some of the instruments.
The Kiahi Moonggang, a relic of mighty Mojopahit, the oldest, most
sacred and least melodious of the royal sets of _gamelan_ instruments,
is played every Saturday evening and so long as its tones fill the air,
all other _gamelans_ must remain silent. Cf. Dr. J. GRONEMAN,
_De Gamelan te Jogjakarta_.

[103] The _topeng_ actors are masked conformably to the meaning of the
word. Masques and masquerades seem to be of high antiquity in Java; the
_Malat_ of the _Panji_-cycle already mentions that kind of dramatic
entertainment.

