The walls of the _chandi_ Plahosan, in so far as preserved, are
beautifully decorated with sculpture in bas-relief. The delicate
tracery of the basement is divided by slender pilasters and the frieze
beneath the symmetric cornice is richly festooned, parrots nestling in
the foliage among the flowers. Bodhisatvas, standing between, formed
the principal ornament of panels bordered by garlands with pendent
prayer-bells; the remaining ones grasp lotus-stems springing up to their
left; _gandharvas_ (celestial singers) float over the _garuda_-heads of
the portals. The reliefs represent scenes familiar to the observer of
native life: here a couple of men seated under a bo-tree or _waringin_
and saluting a person of rank, raising their folded hands to perform
the _sembah_; there a _mās_[115] with his attendants, one of whom
holds the _payoong_ (sunshade) over his head while another carries
a _senteh_[116] leaf. Four stone figures guard the approaches to the
_viharas_, armed with cudgel and sword; in one hand they hold the snake
which, after the manner of their kind, should be worn over one shoulder
and across the breast, replacing the _upawita_. The statuary which
adorned the inner rooms, was of large dimensions, finely chiselled and
garnished with profuse detail, concluding from what we know of it. Part
has been removed to the “museum” at Jogja, part has been broken to
pieces by treasure-hunters who dug holes and sunk shafts, disturbing
the foundations of the _chandi_ Plahosan in their ignorance of the
difference between Buddhist monasteries and Hindu mausolea built round
funeral pits; the sorely damaged images of holiness which were suffered
to keep their stations by frankly destructive and even more pernicious
official or semi-official _soi-disant_ “preservation and conservation,”
are truly pitiful to behold. It seems, indeed, as if the monuments
specially recommended to official care, are singled out for the most
irreparable injury. On a par with the wild feast of plaster, cement
and whitewash at Panataran was the wonderful planning of a restoration
of the _chandi_ Plahosan after faulty drawings and the simultaneous
disappearance of the staircase and a portion of the substructure of the
northern _vihara_.

