Another fable, still more widely distributed and clinching the same
moral, is that of the _kanchil_ (a small, extremely fleet species of
deer) and the snail; travelling to Europe, it is there best known in its
German form recorded by Jakob and Wilhelm Grimm. Of its many variants
in the Malay Archipelago we may mention the wager between a snail and a
tiger as to which could most easily jump a river; the snail, attaching
herself to one of her big competitor’s paws, wins, of course, and
convinces the terror of the woods by means of his hairs adhering to her
body, that she is accustomed to feed on his kind, two or three per diem,
freshly killed, whereupon the tiger leaves off blustering and sneaks
away.[130] The prose version of the _Tantri_ which, somewhat different
from the two metrical readings known to us, contains the vulture and
turtle incident, dates probably from the last half of the Mojopahit
period and is therefore at least four centuries younger than the
_chandi_ Mendoot, so that its author and the sculptors of the scenes
from popular beast-stories on the temple’s walls, must have had access
to a common stock of ancient fables. All turned it to best advantage
and the decorators of this splendid edifice seized their opportunity to
let the men and animals they carved in illustration of their national
literature, express what they had to say in their passionate overflow of
the creative instinct. They gave their narrative a frame in ornament of
dazzling beauty, sweetly harmonious with the moral of the lessons they
taught, stirring to deepest emotion; they cased thoughts of happiest
purport in shrines embossed and laced with fretwork more suggestive
of ivory than of stone. They adorned the Mendoot as a bride, to be
displayed before her husband, the Boro Budoor, revelling in the fanciful
idea which makes the _saktis_ of the Dhyani Buddhas carry budding
flowers to honour incarnate love. The wealth of statuary, while orthodox
Buddhism did not admit the worship of images either of a saintly founder
of temples or of his saintly followers; the deities with the attributes
of Doorga, Siva and Brahma, who diversify the ornament of the exterior
walls, from which right distribution of lines and surfaces may be learnt
in rhythmical relation to contour and dimension, are further indications
of the syncretism signalising the tolerance, the fraternal mingling of
different creeds in the distant age of Mataram’s vigour and artistic
energy.

