The remaining, mostly headless statues are sad to behold, and the fishy
account given of their defective condition, that, namely, the Buddhists,
beleaguered in the sanctuary by the Muhammadans, battling _pro aris
et focis_, drove the enemies off by bombarding them with the Lord of
Victory’s noble features, hewn in stone, smacks of a too ingenious
evasion of the disgraceful facts.[148] The chronicles are silent on such
a desperate struggle in that locality between the conquering hosts of
Islām and the followers of him who pleaded peace, love and goodwill,
whose doctrine and example alike forbade strife and armed resistance.
Not that there has been no fighting round and even within the walls of
the Boro Budoor among the Javanese engaged in internecine warfare and
during the insurrection of Dipo Negoro,[149] but the story of the using
up of the statuary in the shape of missiles, has no leg to stand on. In
the Java War (1825-1830) the Dutch troops erected a temporary fort near
the temple, but it is improbable that _chandi_ material entered into
its construction, not because the warriors of the Government would have
scrupled to destroy any ancient monument, but because the Boro Budoor
stones are exceedingly heavy and earthen fortifications amply sufficed
against native bands without artillery. Though cavalry in particular
never enjoyed a high reputation in respect of their relations to
art,[150] there does not seem to be any more substance in the confession
of a _ci-devant_ commander of a squadron of hussars, cited by Brumund,
that his men used to try the temper of their swords on the ears and
noses of the silent host of Dhyani Buddhas when the rebels of Sentot and
Kiahi Maja were not available.

The true misfortune of the Boro Budoor was official indifference and
negligence; and far more injurious than the fretting tooth of time or
even the merciless hand of the spoiler combined with the provoking
_laissez aller_ yawned in periodical circulars from the central
administration, from Sleepy Hollow at Batavia, was the dabbling in
archaeology of ambitious persons who posed as discoverers, the less
their aptitude to digest their desultory reading, the more arrogant
their cock-sureness where famous scholars reserved _their_ conclusions.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing and might have proved disastrous
to the venerable temple in combination with one of their vaunted
discoveries, which established beyond doubt what not a few knew well
enough and never had doubted of, viz. that there was a gallery lower
than its lowest uncovered terrace, wisely filled up to increase the
stability of the building, very probably soon after or even before the
erection of the upper storeys. The removal of the supporting layers of
stone impaired, of course, the general condition of the structure and
the good news of its being again in its former state, was received by
many with a sigh of relief. This happened in 1885 with great flourish
of trumpets, and the only benefit derived, certainly not of sufficient
importance to balance the inevitable weakening of the foundations
attendant on such excavations, consisted in the bringing to light of
rude, scarcely decipherable inscriptions or rather scratchings,[151] and
the intelligence that of the photographed sculptures, in which, so far,
no representation of connected events has been recognised, twenty-four
are unfinished and thirteen damaged--six wholly smashed. In 1900 new
shafts were sunk for new discoveries of the long and widely known, and
while this pernicious dilettantism was going on, pseudo-archaeologists
vying with professed iconoclasts who should do most harm to the Boro
Budoor, the Government confined itself to antiquarian pyrotechnics at
the yearly debates on the colonial budget in Parliament.

