On entering the galleries, establishing contact with this symmetrical
embodiment of highly spiritualised thought in the strongly knit language
of chiselled stone, to mount to the state of the perfect disciple,
spurred by the figured evolution of the four degrees of Dhyana which
lead to supreme happiness, the pilgrim must have experienced, as we do,
the sensation of physical well-being imparted by the splendour of nature
wrapping human longings in sunshine and the delicious odour exhaled
by mother earth. The luxurious emotion increases, despite nirvanic
chastening, and among the serene images of the higher terraces, who
can remain unmoved in contemplation of the ancient temple lifting its
dagob to the blue heaven, of its hoary walls touched by the golden
light, quivering in desire of sacred communion! Nor do we cease to
marvel when turning from the general idea of universal solidarity,
enunciated in an irreproachable architectural form, to the expository
details of decoration. The ornament accommodates itself with amazing
facility to the characteristic tendencies of the ground-plan, never
perverting the central purpose, which dominates in a most felicitous
combination of the two principles separately developed for western ends
in the classic and gothic styles: the horizontal expansion to allow
thinking space to the brain and the mystic pointing upward to satisfy
the cravings of the heart. Both found application in the Boro Budoor,
their unity of thought in diversity of expression being consolidated by
an inexhaustible wealth of imagery, elucidating accessories, filled as
it is “with sculptures rarest, of forms most beautiful and strange.”
Faithful in choice of subject and manner of representation to the
notions of its time, bodying forth things unknown to our age, the
ornament surprises by its fanciful invention and peculiar treatment,
though always in the best of taste. The heavy cornice which protects
the lowest uncovered tier of external, so far not yet satisfactorily
explained reliefs, carries the niches for the statues already mentioned.
The shape of these niches and of the temples delineated in the scenery
of the carved tales and legends, here as at Prambanan, Toompang, etc.,
afford us material assistance in determining after what model _chandis_,
long fallen into ruin, were built; they are especially helpful in
explaining the often puzzling arrangement of the superstructures, hardly
one being found, even among those best preserved, with the roof still
intact. Leaving archaeological problems alone, modern architects and
decorators can further derive a good deal of profit from a study of the
gradation observed in the downward radiation of both the architectural
and decorative conceit centred in the crowning dagob, or, rather, the
upward convergence in a nobly devised distribution of spaces connected
and entwined by cunning ornament, the luxuriant fantasy of the sculptor
being unerringly controlled by the staid design of the builder. A
fervent imagination may revel in miles of bas-reliefs without surfeit,
the salutary restraint of a sober outline and a proportional disposition
of the component parts being such that the eye never gets tired or the
faculty of perception cloyed.

