[Illustration: XXXV. RELIEFS OF THE BORO BUDOOR

(C. Nieuwenhuis.)]

The work of restoration, started with excavations and the removal of
heaps of accumulated debris, has led to important discoveries, also in
relation to the dagob. Among shattered _naga_-gargoyles, antefixes,
carved detail of every description, fragments have been found of a
triple _payoong_, an ornament in the form of a sunshade which capped
it; of a statuette supposed to have adorned its second storey, the
upper compartment of the cella. To quote from Major van Erpâ€™s last
published report,[158] the excavations shed new light on the design
of some minor parts of the building, the decoration, _e.g._, of the
lowest three staircases on each of the four sides; notwithstanding the
existing drawings, the _kala-makara_ motive seems to have entered into
the ornament of the entrance gate in the principal outer wall; the
design of the balustrade which enclosed the platform of the temple
and disappeared altogether, has been determined and a portion of it
will be rebuilt to show how things must have looked; slabs belonging to
the different series of bas-reliefs, mostly of the _jataka_ variety,
have been unearthed or detected in neighbouring _kampongs_. Especial
care is taken to retrieve those missing from the upper tier in the
first gallery: if the recovered reliefs are not always complete, the
recognisable principal figure explains generally the idea which the
sculptor intended to convey, with sufficient clearness to be grasped by
the trained archaeologist. And as to the rest of the detached pieces of
architectural value, dug up or otherwise revealed to the searching eye,
the symmetric unity of the Boro Budoor is such that place and position
of each component part, however subordinate in the mighty fabric, are
easily ascertained. Every new find discloses new excellence, so far
undreamt of, in the constructive ability of the master-builder whose
illuminated brain conceived the idea of this temple wherein he wrote the
history of a religion,

