When Siu was left to himself, he wondered what it all meant. Here was a
long Dyak house built for more than a hundred families to live in, and
yet it seemed quite deserted. The only person in it appeared to be the
beautiful girl who was cooking his food for him. He was also surprised
that she knew his name, and expected him that day.

"Come in, Siu," said the voice from the room; "your food is ready."

Siu was hungry, and went in at once. When they had done eating, she
cleared away the plates and tidied the room. Then she spread out a new
mat for him, and brought out the _pinang_ and _sireh_, and bade him be
seated as she wished to have a chat with him.

Siu had many questions to ask, but before he could do so, she said to
him, "Tell me of your own people, and what news you bring from your
country."

"There is no news to give you," Siu replied. "We have been rather badly
off for food, as our potatoes and yams did not turn out so well this
year as we hoped."

"Tell me what made you come in this direction, and how it was you found
out this house."

"While I was hunting in the jungle to-day, I lost my way. After
wandering about a long time, I found a path which I followed and came to
this house. It was kind of you to take me in and give me food. If I had
not found this house, I should have had to spend the night in the
jungle. To-morrow morning you must show me the way back to my village.
My mother is sure to be anxious about me. She is left all alone now that
I am away. My father died a long time ago, and I am her only son."

"Do not go away as soon as to-morrow morning. Stay here a few days at
any rate."

At first Siu would not consent, but she spoke so nicely to him, that she
persuaded him to stay there at least a week. Then he went out to the
verandah, and she brought out a mat for him to sleep on, and a sheet to
cover himself with. As Siu was very tired, he soon fell sound asleep,
and did not wake up till late the following morning.

