"Good evening, madam," said van Nerekool as he made his bow to the
hostess, "I hope I have the pleasure of finding you well."

"There's that fool again! What has that booby come on board for I
wonder?" grumbled van Gulpendam, while fair Laurentia answered the
young man's greeting as amiably as possible.

"Well, Mr. van Nerekool, this is indeed kind of you," said she. "We
are glad to see you! You do not wear out your welcome. We only too
seldom have the pleasure of seeing you!"

"Very good indeed of you to say so, Mrs. van Gulpendam; but, you
know, I don't much care for cards and, in the presence of such an
adept as you are, I cannot help feeling myself, to say the least,
somewhat of a fâcheux troisième." As he was speaking his eye at a
glance took in the whole company but failed to light on her whom it
sought. So turning to the gentlemen he said: "Well, Resident, I need
not enquire after you, nor after your health, colonel, nor yours,
my dear doctor; anyone can see there is not much the matter with
you. How are the cards serving you this evening? I hope you are in
luck," continued he to the secretary seated at the other table.

"Not over well," muttered van Nes. "I was getting on pretty fairly
just at first but--"

"Ah, Mr. van Nerekool," cried Mrs. van Gulpendam in the best of
spirits; "you should have come a few minutes earlier, you should have
seen my last hand. Why I held--"

"Will Mr. van Nerekool take tea or coffee?" said a silvery voice
interrupting the threatened explanation.

The young man turned at once. "Good evening, Miss Anna," said he
most heartily. "How are you? But I need not ask, you look like a
fresh-blown Devonshire rose, so charming, so--"

"Will you take tea or coffee?" said Anna, demurely, with an arch
smile at the young man's compliments.

"Did you make the coffee yourself, Miss Anna?"

"Oh, no," replied the still smiling girl, "our cook always makes it."

"And the tea?" asked van Nerekool also with a smile.

