Presently all had taken their leave and the Resident was standing
looking out at the departing guests when he heard a subdued voice
saying behind him:

"May I be allowed to say something, Kandjeng toean?"

Van Gulpendam turned and saw his chief servant seated cross-legged
beside him.

"What have you got to tell me?" asked he, abruptly.

"I made a mistake just now, Kandjeng toean," was the man's reply.

"A mistake," said the Resident; "what do you mean?"

"When I told the inspector toean that the opium was found on Ardjan."

"Brute!" roared van Gulpendam. "If you dare to retract your words
I give you the sack--I shall have you clapped into prison. Do you
hear me?"

"Eng√®h, Kandjeng toean," said the poor native with his usual drawl,
and placing his folded hands upon his forehead he respectfully and
submissively made his "sembah" (salaam).








CHAPTER VI.

A LUCKY DAY.


Van Nerekool's interference was destined to bear very little
fruit; but, on the other hand, it involved him in the most serious
troubles. He was so young, he was so utterly without experience of all
the complicated mazes of injustice which, in Dutch India, are found
in both the judicial and administrative departments as soon as ever
these are brought into contact with anything that touches the great
Opium monopoly.

A few weeks after his conversation with Anna van Gulpendam, she told
him, on the occasion of another visit which he paid to her family,
that Ardjan had been discharged from the hospital, but only to be
immediately committed to jail. Thereupon, van Nerekool began to make
inquiries from the President of the Council at Santjoemeh, and from
him he heard that the Javanese was lying in prison on an accusation
of smuggling opium in considerable quantities.

"But," added the President, Mr. Zuidhoorn, "there is, in this case,
one very curious feature, which I do not at all understand."

"Indeed," said van Nerekool, "what may that be?"

"Why, it is this," said Mr. Zuidhoorn. "Last week I received a letter
from the Resident, in which he tells me in what order and on what
dates he wants us to take the cases we have before us."

