"Yes, I am quite ready," answered his friend; "but how about horses?"

"Oh! Verstork has taken good care of that," was van Rheijn's reply,
"if you will let me send out your servant for a few moments you will
have them prancing at the door in less than ten minutes."

The young men had not long to wait, for they had scarcely time to
drink a glass of beer and light a cigar, before two excellent saddle
horses made their appearance. They were well-bred Makassars, not so
perfect in shape, and handsome to look at as KadoeÃ«rs or Battakers;
but good serviceable animals with broad, well made chests, indicating
both strength and endurance, and provided with good sinewy legs which,
if not particularly symmetrical, were strong and fit for hard work.

In a twinkling, the young men were in the saddle.

"And now, your rifle?" said Edward.

"Sidin, give me the gun," said van Nerekool to his servant.

The man handed to his master the splendid rifle which, at his request,
the regent of Santjoemeh had lent to the judicial functionary.

Charles slung the weapon by the strap over his shoulder, put a couple
of revolvers into his holsters; so that, as far as arms went, he was
almost as well off as his friend van Rheijn. A few moments later,
the pair had left Santjoemeh, and at a brisk trot were riding eastward
in the direction of Banjoe Pahit, which was their destination.

They did not talk much by the way, in fact only a word now and then
passed between them. There was indeed no very great inducement to
conversation; for, though the road they were following was fairly
well shaded by Tamarind and Kanan trees, yet the tropical heat was
most oppressive, and would not much decrease until the sun was nearing
the horizon. But it was only three in the afternoon, so that the orb
of day was still far from the end of his journey.

The horses, however, were high-mettled and indefatigable and kept up
a good pace, at a trot where the road was level, and breaking into a
gallop, when it ran up hill. The noble animals very seldom required
to be pulled up to a walk, and could not long be kept to that pace to
which they were but little accustomed. Moreover, the scenery through
which the two friends were passing might well, in every sense of the
word, be called enchanting. First their road lay through pleasant
looking dessas, whose dark roofs of atap-leaves and golden yellow
fences, formed a most agreeable prospect in the midst of the dark
foliage of the fruit trees which completely overshadowed them. Next
came plantations of cocoa-nut trees where the slender palms planted in
regular rows, lifted up high in the air their waving plume-like tops,
and cast curious ever-changing shadows on the turf which covered the
ground. Further on still, as squares on a vast chess-board, were seen
the extensive rice-fields, the dikes or mounds which bounded them
richly overgrown with grass or shaded by toeri or klampies bushes
showing quite distinctly, while the rice-fields themselves lay, at
this time of the year, glittering in the sunlight, like so many huge
water-tanks; for after harvest they are flooded, and then present an
aspect of molten silver enclosed in frames of bright green. Then behind
the rice-fields arose the stately mountains which densely covered with
virgin forest, formed a deep band of dark-green around the glittering
squares. Further on again, in the far distance, all became indistinct,
and assumed a uniform deep purple hue which contrasted sharply and
most beautifully with the light azure of the sky above. Now and then,
after the horses had had a long stiff gallop up a more than usually
steep slope, they would require a few minutes' rest; then the riders
upon looking back, caught glimpses of the Java sea which lay on the
horizon, shining under the sun's beams like a boundless mirror on
which the white sails of the ships appeared as hovering sea-gulls,
or the thick smoke from some steamer's funnel curled darkly over the
watery expanse.

