A few hundred yards off, in the rice-plain, lay the dessa Kaligaweh,
bathed in all the wondrous tints with which the setting sun coloured
the evening sky, and cast its reflection in the waters of the
rice-fields which, here, were flooded as elsewhere. With its trees,
its palms, its bamboos, its orchards, which almost entirely embosomed
the little yellow-fenced huts, that little dessa casting its image
upon the watery mirror, formed a scene of such magic beauty that the
Europeans could not tear themselves from so lovely a view. Nor until
the glorious tints began slowly to fade away before the rising moon,
could they make up their minds to turn homeward.

They were just saying good-bye to the Loerah of Kaligaweh, and were
impressing upon him the necessity of bringing up his people early
next morning, and were turning their horses' heads and preparing for
a sharp gallop back to Banjoe Pahit when--suddenly in the direction
of the last named dessa, there was heard a frightful tumult. All
started and stood still, and listened in the utmost astonishment. The
yelling and screaming continued, and then amidst the confused noise
made by the shrieks of women and children, the dreadful word, "Amokh,
Amokh!" (murder) was distinctly heard.

"What on earth can all this mean, Loerah?" cried Verstork to the
chief of the dessa who was still by his side.

"I don't know, kandjeng toean," replied he; "but I will ride off at
once and find out."

"Wait a bit," cried another, "here comes a policeman running like mad."

So it was; panting and almost completely out of breath one of those
canaries (so called from their yellow braided uniforms) came running
up along a pathway which led across the sawah-fields to the Djoerang
Pringapoes. As soon as he got up to the group of horsemen he squatted
down by the Controller's horse and made the sembah.

"Kandjeng toean," he panted, "they are running Amokh in the dessa
yonder. One bandoelan has been already krissed and a policeman
severely wounded."

