The three first rifle shots had bowled over the three foremost animals,
one of which was a boar of gigantic size, and for a moment stopped
the rush of the entire herd. The wounded animals lay on the ground,
struggling and fighting, uttering fearful squeaks and striking out
right and left with their formidable tusks at those who came behind,
thus almost wholly blocking up the narrow opening. That lasted however
only for a moment or two, for the noise of the beaters drove the
creatures to such a pitch of fury that, in spite of all opposition,
they rushed over the bodies of their fallen leaders. But the three
men who had first opened fire, had, in those few moments, had time to
reload, and an instant after, all the others posted to the right and
left caught sight of the game and at once opened fire upon the dense
struggling mass of pigs, hardly a single shot being lost. Thereupon a
scene of the direst confusion ensued. The wounded animals tumbled over
one another uttering groans and squeaks which baffle description. The
hindmost ones, still urged on by the terrific noise of the beaters,
fought and pushed their way to the front. The sows grimly defended
their young and seemed to vent their fury upon the carcases of the
dead and wounded, and, in that terrific mel√©e, the bullets of the
seven hunters kept plunging with the deadliest effect. The rifled
breech-loaders poured shot after shot into the densely packed mass,
and every moment the narrow gap became more and more impassible.

That went on for the space of about three minutes, during which the
breech-loaders plied their unerring fire.

Presently van Nerekool said to Verstork: "Are we not running the risk
of hitting some of the men in the rear?"

"Oh, no," replied Verstork, "if they have followed my instructions
there is no danger whatever. A few yards lower down there is a sharp
elbow in the ravine, so that if one of our bullets should happen to
miss or to pass through the body of one of these beasts it must bury
itself in the walls of rock. You hear--according to agreement, the
fellows have already stopped their noise--they are not at all anxious
to come to close quarters and to expose themselves to a stray bullet."

