"I do not lie," cried Dalima, "I have not smuggled--my condition
shows plainly enough how they have treated me."

At a gesture from the controller a couple of oppassers lifted up the
young girl from the ground. Van Nerekool assisted them, and called
for another covering to wrap around her.

Then turning to the Controller he said, "A foul outrage has been
committed here--the way that poor girl has been treated is simply
infamous!"

Having thus for the moment taken care of Dalima, the company entered
the hut.

There they found Mokesuep smoking a friendly cigar with Lim Ho. The
latter's ear was bandaged.

"So," said Verstork to Mokesuep without bestowing so much as a look
upon the Chinaman. "So you're here!"

"Yes," was the reply, "I am here, I lost my way this morning in the
ravine and have been wandering about until I came upon this hut. I
then sought shelter from the burning sun. Bah, how hot it is in those
open fields!"

All this was said with the greatest self-possession. At the last
sentence the wretch actually puffed as if he had really been suffering
much from the heat.

"You have been here some time then?" asked Verstork.

"Well yes," was the reply, "about half an hour I should say, if you
call that some time."

"You will be called upon to bear witness," said the controller.

"Indeed--bear witness to what?"

"A dreadful outrage has been committed on that girl," continued
Verstork.

"An outrage?" asked Mokesuep as if much astonished. "I know nothing
at all about it."

"Nothing whatever has taken place here," remarked Singomengolo
speaking in Malay; for though he would not use it yet he understood
the Dutch language perfectly. "Nothing at all has taken place here,"
he repeated, "except the discovery of smuggled opium. Is that true
or not, babah?" The Chinaman who had risen from his seat when the
European gentlemen entered the hut, exchanged looks with Mokesuep,
but answered at once, "Nothing else, Kandjeng toean."

