"I thank you," said he in a tone of deep emotion, "I thank you
heartily for the insight you have given me into the fatal effects of
opium. I am but a young lawyer and have, as yet, had no opportunity
of appearing as counsel in any case connected with the traffic. I
have read much about the abuse of the drug, and I learned much last
night under the Wariengien tree on the green at Kaligaweh; but your
manly and vigorous words have awakened my conscience, and here, in
the presence of you all, I solemnly promise that I will, on the very
first opportunity that may present itself, make the very best use I
can of what your experience has taught me."

"Hurrah!" cried Leendert Grashuis. "William, your excellent speech
has thus had not only a practical, but it will have an immediate
effect. Aye, my friends, I say an immediate effect; for I have a
proposition to make to you--"

"Out with it!" they cried, "let us hear it."

"Yesterday, we all but witnessed the Amokh which took place at
Kaligaweh; this morning we were within a few minutes of witnessing
another and no less terrible crime. It is not my intention to analyse
the feelings to which these scenes have given rise in our hearts--the
father a manslayer, and the daughter dishonoured. Both these events,
however, are intimately and immediately connected with the infamous
system of opium-farming. We have heard the testimony of our superior
officer. In the name of all assembled here, I thank him for his
noble sentiments; and now my friends let us not be behind him in
generosity. Dalima and her father must have an advocate in the trial
which awaits them, and that advocate we have found. Both the accused
parties will, in our friend August van Beneden, find a defender who
will take up their cause with zeal and ability. Methinks, I can hear
his maiden speech--it will be a splendid one."

"Thank you, Leendert," said van Beneden with much emotion, "I can
assure my friends that they have not misjudged me."

