"I cannot say, Mr. Verstork, that you have clapped on too much
sail--you have been somewhat slow in making me acquainted with these
painful events."

"Resident, I--"

"I did not put any question," again roared van Gulpendam, with a look
of scorn and contempt upon his subordinate, "please hold your tongue!"

"It appeared to me, Resident, that--"

"Be silent, I say! I only have a right to speak--"

Verstork, however, took no heed of this rude interruption, and
quietly went on: "--That you made some remarks about the time of my
presenting my report. If that be so, I feel it my duty, nay my right,
to exculpate myself."

"If you will not keep silence," shouted van Gulpendam, "I will call--"
he was on the point of making a mistake, he was just going to say
the boatswain's mate; but he checked himself and said, "I will call
my chief constable and have you removed out of my presence."

"Hark you, Mr. van Gulpendam," said Verstork drawing himself up to
his full height, and speaking with much dignity, "Hark you, I am
neither your corporal nor your boatswain of the watch. And, further,
let me tell you that if you continue to address me in such terms I
will lodge a complaint against you with the Secretary for the Home
Department, or better still, with the Governor General!"

It was now van Gulpendam's turn to change colour, he saw that he had
gone a little too far. He had so long been accustomed to see every
one bowing down before him and putting up with all his whims and
fits of bad temper, that he never thought of checking himself in the
presence of Verstork, whom he had always looked upon as an easy-going
and good-tempered fellow. He now, however, at once drew in his horns
and said in a very different tone:

"Pardon me, Mr. Verstork, you know I am of a sanguine temperament. I
am, moreover, very much vexed at not receiving this news from one of
my officers in the first instance. Come, take a seat, I should like
to run my eye over this report."

