All these thoughts, in a moment of time, flashed through the mind
of this brave and loyal wife, and when Meidema walked into the
back-gallery her mind was fully made up.

The girls jumped up to give their father the usual kiss, the mother
also rose to welcome him. But Meidema saw, at a single glance, that
there was something wrong. He put his hands on his wife's shoulders
and steadily looking her in the face he said cheerily: "I say, mammy
dear--is there any news?"

"Yes, Meidema, there is," replied his wife gravely, "sit down, I have
something to tell you!"

"I say, old girl, you look very serious, are the girls in the way?"

"No, no, let them stay, I have no secrets that they may not hear--in
fact I prefer them to be here."

"My love, how solemn you are! Is there anything wrong? Anything to
do with them eh? Have they had an offer? No? Of course not, you would
not have looked so black if they had."

"Now pray," said his wife, "pray do not talk such nonsense."

"Oh, I see, it must be those boys! they have been naughty--trousers
torn, jackets in holes! Yes--those youngsters are an awful
nuisance--Never mind all that will come right by-and-by."

"All that will come right!"--At those words he stopped short, poor
man! his interview with the Resident then came to his memory and he
began restlessly to pace up and down the gallery. He took out his
cigar-case and looked at Matilda.

She jumped up, "May I light it for you, father?" she said.

She put the cheroot to her lips, lighted a match, and drew a few
whiffs. As the smoke went curling up her nostrils and into her eyes,
she made a funny little grimace--then she coughed slightly and closed
her eyes, and, when the cigar was well lighted, she gave it to her
father saying:

"Ah bah, horrid! How can you gentlemen like that nasty smoke?"

"Why you little minx!" said her father laughing, "you have lit it at
the wrong end!"

"It is more economical, father."

"Perhaps so; but that is why it tastes nasty."

