"Which sessions?" asked Zuidhoorn.

"Ah, you see! you have a kind of inner consciousness that there are
several occasions on which--"

"That is the merest quibble!" cried Zuidhoorn, somewhat testily,
"the merest quibble! I have attended at, and presided over, so many
sessions, that my question is, surely, a very natural one."

"Well, I will tell you," replied the other, "I am alluding to the
affair with Resident van Gulpendam."

"Who would persist in presiding over the trials, which he had no
right whatever to do."

"Come, come, my dear friend," said the Chief Justice, "you must be
losing sight of clause 92 of our Judicial regulations. But, I ascribe
that want of memory to your mental condition."

"Pardon me," interrupted Mr. Zuidhoorn warmly, "the condition of my
mind has nothing whatever to do with it. You said clause 92?"

"Precisely so," replied the Chief Justice, "that clause confers upon
the Resident the power of presiding at any session which may be held
within his district, should he think it right and proper so to do."

"I know that," answered Zuidhoorn, "but pray remember, that when that
92nd clause was in force, there was as yet no thought of appointing
specially qualified lawyers to the presidential office. At that time
such a regulation may have been useful and even necessary; but, as
matters stand now, it would be an utter absurdity for any Resident
who is a layman, to put aside the specially appointed president in
order to thrust himself upon a court of justice in the capacity of
chairman. Methinks that--"

"Mr. Zuidhoorn, allow me to say, that we judges ought to be the very
first to show strict respect to the written law. Certain rules and
regulations may appear useless or even mischievous; but so long as
they remain in force, we are bound to abide by them. And--pardon me the
question--have you in this particular case acted up to that principle?"

"It seems to me then," said Zuidhoorn, "that you do not approve of
my line of conduct?"

