"That's all very fine;" said Grenits, "but meanwhile he has not
turned up."

"Perhaps," suggested van Beneden, "he is hunting butterflies."

"Excuse me," replied van Rheijn, "in addition to his other merits,
the man is also a great lover of music. Nothing in the world would
induce him to miss the afternoon concert on the green, moreover he
is deeply smitten with Miss Agatha van Bemmelen, and she, no doubt,
is there in the family coach."

"Oh, ho!" said Grenits, "that is a pretty little butterfly, she has
money too."

"Oh, yes, your Poles are no fools."

"But how long will he be?"

"He has promised me," replied van Rheijn, "to join us as soon as the
music is over; and he is the man to keep to his word."

"Meanwhile we might get up a little music on our own account,"
suggested van Beneden.

"You see," said Grenits pointing to the piano, "Charles is at his
post already."

Van Nerekool, who had taken but little part in the conversation, had,
in fact, risen and gone to the piano. At first, in an absent kind of
way, he struck a few chords; but presently, under the influence of
thoughts which always reverted to Anna, he had struck up L'absence of
Tal. The room soon was filled with melancholy strains and sentimental
trills.

"No, no!" cried van Rheijn, "let us have no music, you see what effect
it has. Just look at him sitting there, why there are tears in his
eyes! A most pernicious thing, believe me, in this climate and in
this horrid dungeon."

The last chord had died away and still van Nerekool remained moodily
seated at the instrument, his head bent forward and his hands resting
heavily on the keys.

"I say, Charles!" cried Edward, "no more music now. Come and sit
here by me, and, while we are waiting for Murowski, I have a letter
to read to you which I have just now received from Verstork."

"From William!" exclaimed van Nerekool; and, rousing himself at the
name of his friend, he took the seat van Rheijn indicated to him.

