"You are right, madam" replied Murowski. "You see it is very probable
that Mr. Steenvlak may know where the young lady is to be found,
and we might then break the sad news gently to her."

Meanwhile Grenits had been asking van Nerekool what he intended to do.

"She cannot now refuse to give me a few words to Anna," was his
reply. "In such terrible circumstances a true friend's advice may be
of the greatest value. Do you not approve of my plan?"

Theodoor merely nodded assent while he warmly pressed his friend's
hand.

Ten minutes later van Nerekool was in the saddle and was galloping
along the road to Karang Anjer. When he arrived there he found the
Steenvlaks had already been informed of the terrible event; for the
Assistant Resident also had received a telegram from Santjoemeh.








CHAPTER XLI.

THE OUTLAWS AT SOEKA MANIESAN. FEARFUL RETRIBUTION.


Yes! the terrible news was true--it was but too true--!

When the van Gulpendams arrived at Soeka maniesan, the proprietor of
that sugar-factory could not help admitting that lately all symptoms
of disturbance had disappeared. He had caused the woods, in which the
supposed seditious meetings were held, to be carefully watched; but
he had not been able to discover in them a single human being. Thus,
he had come to the conclusion, that either his former information had
been altogether false, or else that the mutinous spirits had removed
to some other part of the country.

Resident van Gulpendam, on his arrival, summoned the Assistant Resident
of the district of which Soeka maniesan was an outlying station, and
he also called before him the Regent and the Wedonos of the place;
but he could not extract anything out of them which might awaken so
much as a suspicion of danger.

Very much the other way! All these authorities declared that the
most profound calm and content prevailed throughout the district,
though the Regent was fain to admit that there was a great deal of
poverty and distress about.

