"Where are you running to, Nana?" panted Dalima.

"Let us hurry on!" cried Anna impatiently, as she ran, casting behind
her many an anxious look.

"But, where are we going to, Nana?"

"Why yonder!" cried Anna hurriedly as she pointed to the south.

"But that way leads to the sea!" cried Dalima.

"Just so," replied Anna, "and that is where I want to go."

"What are we going to do there, Nana?" asked Dalima anxiously.

"I know a hiding place where no one will find us or even go to look
for us."

"What? There, Nana?"

"Yes, yes, do come along--try to make another effort--it cannot be
far away!"

"A hiding place?" repeated Dalima. "But, Nana, there is nothing over
there but the bare rock."

"Aye; but in those rocks there are holes!" cried Anna much excited.

"The Goewahs!" exclaimed the baboe in utter dismay.

Anna answered a few words which, however, Dalima did not catch. Darting
on like a hind, the Resident's daughter had outstripped her
companion. Dalima was naturally very strong and inured to fatigue
and exertion; but her condition was beginning to tell upon her. The
burden she had to bear and the rapid motion, had utterly exhausted
her, and she felt her strength fast ebbing away. The blood began to
flush up to her head, her temples throbbed, her eyes seemed covered
as with a reddish film; and an insupportable feeling of weariness and
listlessness pervaded her entire frame. Still she struggled on game
to the last. Her breathing was getting thick and wheezy--she was, in
fact, on the point of fainting altogether. But this little Javanese
girl was endowed with a tough frame and an indomitable will; and,
though almost exhausted, yet she struggled after her companion as
mechanically she kept muttering to herself:

"Forward! Forward!" Oh no! she could not, she would not leave her
Nana in the hour of need.

This painful progress went on for some time. At length, after they
had turned round an immense boulder which seemed to form a barrier
to the path, Anna stood still.

