
CHAPTER VI. PAGES 84-92.

The Colony of Labuan, ceded to England in return for assistance
against pirates. For similar reasons monopoly of pepper trade
granted to the East India Company in 1774. First British
connection with Labuan in 1775, on expulsion from Balambangan.
Belcher and Brooke visit Brunai, 1844, to enquire into alleged
detention of an European female. Offer of cession of Labuan. Rajah
Muda Hassim. At Sultan's request, British attack Osman, in Marudu
Bay, 1845. Brooke recognised as the Queen's agent in Borneo.
Captain Mundy, R.N., under Lord Palmerston's instructions, hoists
British flag in Labuan, 24th Dec., 1846. Brooke appointed the
first Governor, 1847, being at the same time British
representative in Borneo, and independent ruler of Sarawak. His
staff of 'Queen's officers'; concluded present treaty with Brunai;
ceased to be Governor 1851. Sir Hugh Low, Sir J. Pope Hennessy,
Sir Henry Bulwer, Sir Charles Lees. Original expectations of the
Colony not realized. Description of the island. The Kadayans.
Agriculture, timber, trade. Overshadowed by Singapore, Sarawak,
and North Borneo. Writer's suggestion for proclaiming British
Protectorate over North Borneo, and assigning to it the Government
of Labuan, has been adopted. Population of Labuan. Its coal
measures and the failure of successive companies to work them; now
being worked by Central Borneo Company (Ltd.). Chinese and natives
worked well under Europeans. Revenue and expenditure. Labuan
self-supporting since 1860. High-sounding official titles. One
officer plays many parts. Labuan celebrated for its fruits,
introduced by Sir Hugh Low. Sir Hugh's influence; instance of,
when writer was fired on by Sulus. H.M.S. _Frolic_ on a rock.
Captain Buckle, R.N. Dr. Treacher's coco-nut plantation. The
Church.


CHAPTER VII. PAGES 92-103.

British North Borneo; mode of acquisition; absence of any real
native government; oppression of the inland pagans by the coast
Muhamadans. Failure of American syndicate's Chinese colonization
scheme in 1865. Colonel Torrey interests Baron Overbeck in the
American concessions; Overbeck interests Sir Alfred Dent, who
commissions him to acquire a transfer of the concessions from the
Sultans of Brunai and Sulu, 1877-78. The ceded territory known as
Sabah. Meaning of the term. Spanish claims on ground of suzerainty
over Sulu. Not admitted by the British Government. The writer
ordered to protest against Spanish claims to North Borneo, 1879.
Spain renounced claims, by Protocol, 1885. Holland, on ground of
the Treaty of 1824, objected to a British settlement in Borneo;
also disputed the boundary between Dutch and British Borneo. The
writer 'violates' Netherland territory and hoists the Company's
flag on the south bank of the Siboku, 1883. Annual tribute paid to
the Brunai Government. Certain intervening independent rivers
still to be acquired. Dent's first settlements at Sandakan,
Tampassuk, and Pappar. Messrs. Pryer, Pretyman, Witti, and
Everett. Opposition of Datu Bahar at Pappar. Difficult position of
the pioneer officers. Respect for Englishmen inspired by Brooke's
exploits. Mr. W. H. Read. Mr. Dent forms a 'Provisional
Association' pending grant of a Royal Charter, 1881, composed of
Sir Rutherford Alcock, A. Dent, R. B. Martin, Admiral Mayne, W. H.
Read. Sir Rutherford energetically advocates the scheme from
patriotic motives. The British North Borneo Company incorporated
by Royal Charter, 1st November, 1881; nominal capital two
millions, Â£20 shares. 33,030 shares issued. Powers and conditions
of the Charter. Flag.

