"This is the genealogy of all the RÃ¡jas who have occupied the
royal throne of the Government of Brunai, the abode of peace,
from generation to generation, who inherited the royal drum and
the bell, the tokens from the country of Johore, _kamal
almakam_, and who also possessed the royal drum from
Menangkabau, namely, from the country of Saguntang.

"This was the commencement of the kingdom of Brunai and of the
introduction of the Mahomedan religion and of the Code of Laws
of the prophet, the beloved of God, in the country of
Brunai--that is to say (in the reign of) His Highness Sultan
MAHOMET. But before His Majesty's time the country of Brunai was
still infidel, and a dependency of Majapahit. On the death of
the Batara of Majapahit and of the PATIH GAJA MEDAH the kingdom
of Majapahit fell, and Brunai ceased to pay tribute, which used
to consist of one jar of the juice of the young betel-nut every
year.

"In the time of the Sultan BAHTRI of the kingdom of Johor, Tuan
ALAK BETATAR and PATIH BERBAHI were summoned to Johor, and the
former was appointed Sultan MAHOMET by the Sultan of Johor, who
conferred on him the royal drum and assigned him five provinces,
namely, Kaluka, Seribas, Sadong, Samarahan and Sarawak. PATIH
BERBAI was given the title of Bandhara Sri Maharaja. After a
stay of some little time in Johor, His Highness the Sultan
MAHOMET returned to Brunai; but His Highness had no male issue
and only one daughter. At that time also the Emperor of China
ordered two of his ministers to obtain possession of the
precious stone of the dragon of the mountain Kinabalu. Numbers
of Chinese were devoured by the dragon and still possession was
not obtained of the stone. For this reason they gave the
mountain the name of Kinabalu (_Kina_ = Chinese; _balu_ =
_widow_).

"The name of one of the Chinese Ministers was _Ong Kang_ and of
another ONG SUM PING, and the latter had recourse to a
stratagem. He made a box with glass sides and placed a large
lighted candle therein, and when the dragon went forth to feed,
ONG SUM PING seized the precious stone and put the lamp in its
place and u the dragon mistook it for the precious stone. Having
now obtained possession of the precious stone all the junks set
sail for China, and when they had got a long way off from
Kinabalu, ONG KANG asked ONG SUM PING for the stone, and
thereupon a quarrel ensued between them. ONG KANG continued to
press his demand for the precious stone, and ONG SUM PING became
out of humour and sullen and refused to return to China and made
his way back to Brunai. On arriving there, he espoused the
Princess, the daughter of Sultan MAHOMET, and he obtained the
title of Sultan AHAMAT.

