In this shadowy world, APO LEGGAN is one of the principal regions, and
is the abode of the spirits of those who die from sickness or from old
age. The souls in _Apo Leggan_ have much the same lot as they had in
this world; the poor remain poor, and the rich maintain their rich
estate, and even the soul that has been harassed in life in the upper
air must none the less expect to find misfortune and perplexity in the
world to come. In the absence of any definite code of morals, this is,
perhaps, the most suitable belief that a savage tribe could have; it
stimulates them to a constant endeavor to better their condition in this
life and make their mark in some way, so that the life to come, in which
they have a firm belief, may not be a continuation of the hardships they
have endured here. Their methods of gaining wealth may not conform to
our ideas of propriety, but then all is fair in love and war, and as
they have very little idea of love, their motto has to be "all is fair
in war;" life in the jungle is little else than a ceaseless struggle for
the survival of the fittest.

LONG JULAN, a second division, is where live the souls of those who have
died a violent or sudden death, either on the battlefield, or in their
own clearings by the accidental fall of a tree; and there also dwell the
young mothers who have died in childbirth; they become the wives of
young warriors who likewise have been cut off in the bloom of youth and
are therefore proper mates for unfortunate little mothers. Such beliefs
naturally tend to the taking of life; a young man, for instance, who
loses his wife in childbirth wishes to meet her again in the next world,
and his ambition to go on the warpath is doubly strong. Is he fortunate
enough to take a head, he gains high rank among warriors; should he be
killed, he has the comfortable assurance that he will again meet his
wife in _Long Julan_. The souls in _Long Julan_ have an easy time and
are always fairly well off, whatever their circumstances were in this
life.

