"The airplane seems to have been of the more practical use,"
replied Wright. "In the first place, dirigible airships of the
Zeppelin type are so expensive to build, costing somewhere around
a half million dollars each, that it is distinctly
disadvantageous to the nation operating them to have one
destroyed. But what is more important is the fact that the
Zeppelin is so large that it furnishes an excellent target,
unless it sails considerably higher than is comparatively safe
for an airplane. And when the Zeppelin is at a safe height it is
too far above the ground for your scout to make accurate
observations. Similarly, when the Zeppelin is used for dropping
bombs, it must be too high for the bomb thrower to show much
accuracy."

"You think that the use of flying machines for scouting purposes
will be of considerably more importance than their use as a means
of attack?" was another question.

"That has been decidedly true so far," replied Wright. "About all
that has been accomplished by either side from bomb dropping has
been to kill a few non-combatants and that will have no bearing
on the result of the war.

[Illustration: _At a French Airplane Base._ Â© International Pilot
Service.]

"English newspapers have long talked of the danger of Zeppelin
attacks or airplane attacks, but it was all for a purpose,
because they did not believe the country was sufficiently
prepared for war and sought to arouse the people and the War
Department to action by means of the airship bogy. [Later history
showed Mr. Wright sadly in error on this point.]

"Aside from the use of the machines for war purposes the war will
give a great boost to aviation generally. It has led more men to
learn to fly, and with a higher degree of skill than ever before.
It has awakened people to aviation possibilities.

[Illustration: Stringfellow's Airplane.]

"Just like the automobile, it will become more and more
fool-proof, easier to handle and safer. There is no reason why it
should not take the place of special trains where there is urgent
need of great speed.

