While young Americans were being drilled into shape for service in
the flying corps, Lufbery gave this outline of the type of men the
service would demand:

It will take the cream of the American youth between the ages of
eighteen and twenty-six to man America's thousands of airplanes,
and the double cream of youth to qualify as chasers in the
Republic's new aërial army.

Intensive and scientific training must be given this cream of
youth upon which America's welfare in the war must rest.
Experience has shown that for best results the fighting aviator
should be not over twenty-six years old or under eighteen. The
youth under eighteen has shown himself to be bold, but he lacks
judgment. Men over twenty-six are too cautious.

The best air fighters, especially a man handling a chaser, must
be of perfect physique. He must have the coolest nerve and be of
a temperament that longs for a fight. He must have a sense of
absolute duty and fearlessness, the keenest sense of action, and
perfect sight to gain the absolute "feel" of his machine.

He must be entirely familiar with aërial acrobatics. The latter
frequently means life or death.

Fighting twenty-two thousand feet in the air produces a heavy
strain on the heart. It is vital therefore that this organ show
not the slightest evidence of weakness. Such weakness would
decrease the aviator's fighting efficiency.

The American boys who come over to France for this work will be
subject to rapid and frequent variations in altitude. It is a
common occurrence to dive vertically from six thousand to ten
thousand feet with the motor pulling hard.

Sharpness of vision is imperative. Otherwise the enemy may escape
or the aviator himself will be surprised or mistake a friendly
machine for a hostile craft. The differences are often merely
insignificant colours and details.

America's aviators must be men who will be absolute masters of
themselves under fire, thinking out their attacks as their fight
progresses.

