The country below has changed into a flat surface of varicoloured
figures. Woods are irregular blocks of dark green, like daubs of
ink spilled on a table; fields are geometrical designs of
different shades of green and brown, forming in composite an
ultra-cubist painting; roads are thin white lines, each with its
distinctive windings and crossings--from which you determine your
location. The higher you are the easier it is to read.

In about ten minutes you see the Meuse sparkling in the morning
light, and on either side the long line of sausage-shaped
observation balloons far below you. Red-roofed Verdun springs
into view just beyond. There are spots in it where no red shows
and you know what has happened there. In the green pasture land
bordering the town, round flecks of brown indicate the shell
holes. You cross the Meuse.

Immediately east and north of Verdun there lies a broad, brown
band. From the Woevre plain it runs westward to the "S" bend in
the Meuse, and on the left bank of that famous stream continues
on into the Argonne Forest. Peaceful fields and farms and
villages adorned that landscape a few months ago--when there was
no Battle of Verdun. Now there is only that sinister brown belt,
a strip of murdered Nature. It seems to belong to another world.
Every sign of humanity has been swept away. The woods and roads
have vanished like chalk wiped from a blackboard; of the villages
nothing remains but grey smears where stone walls have tumbled
together. The great forts of Douaumont and Vaux are outlined
faintly, like the tracings of a finger in wet sand. One cannot
distinguish any one shell crater, as one can on the pockmarked
fields on either side. On the brown band the indentations are so
closely interlocked that they blend into a confused mass of
troubled earth. Of the trenches only broken, half-obliterated
links are visible.

Columns of muddy smoke spurt up continually as high explosives
tear deeper into this ulcered area. During heavy bombardment and
attacks I have seen shells falling like rain. The countless
towers of smoke remind one of Gustave Dor√©'s picture of the fiery
tombs of the arch-heretics in Dante's "Hell." A smoky pall covers
the sector under fire, rising so high that at a height of one
thousand feet one is enveloped in its mist-like fumes. Now and
then monster projectiles hurtling through the air close by leave
one's plane rocking violently in their wake. Airplanes have been
cut in two by them.

