From the aÃ«rial point of view things are different. A pilot
warned for night flying takes it as he takes everything else,
with apparent unconcern. He realizes that he will have an
uninteresting ride in the dark; the danger from "Archie" will be
small, for an airplane is a difficult target to keep under
observation with a searchlight, and the danger from hostile
aircraft will be smaller still.

Over the trenches the star shells of the infantry may be seen,
occasionally the flash of a badly concealed gun glints in the
darkness or the exploding bombs of a trench raiding party cause
tiny sparks to glimmer far below. Probably the enemy, hearing the
sound of engines, will turn on his searchlights and sweep the sky
with long pencils of light. The pilot may be picked up for a
second, and a trifle later the angry bang, bang, bang of "Archie"
may be heard, firing excitedly at the place where the aeroplane
ought to be but is not--the pilot has probably dipped and changed
his course since he was in the rays of the searchlight. He may be
caught again for an instant and the performance is repeated.

Before long the vicinity of the target is reached and he prepares
to drop his bombs, usually eight in number. A little before he is
over the spot the first bombs will be released, for the
trajectory of the bomb follows the course of the machine if the
latter keeps on a straight course and when it explodes the
airplane is still overhead. Down far below will be seen a tiny
burst of flame; possibly a large fire blazes up and the pilot
knows that his work is good. He then turns and repeats his
performance until all his bombs are exhausted, when he turns for
home.

Bombs are usually dropped from a low altitude at night in order
to be surer of getting the target. If during the performance any
local searchlights are turned on "Archie" gets busy and a merry
game of hide and seek in and out the beams takes place. If the
airplane is very low, and bombs are sometimes dropped from a
height of only a few hundred feet, it is highly probable that the
bursting shells do more damage than the airplane's bombs, and it
is almost impossible to wing an airplane by night.

