[Illustration: Â© U. & U.

_A Burning Balloon, Photographed from a Parachute by the Escaping
Balloonist._]

In my little cockpit from which my shoulders just protrude I have
several diversions besides flying. The compass, of course, and
the map I keep tucked in a tiny closet over the reservoir before
my knees, a small clock and one altimetre. But most important is
the contour, showing revolutions of the motor which one is
constantly regarding as he moves the manettes of gasoline and gas
back and forth. To husband one's fuel and tease the motor to
round eleven takes attention, for the carburetor changes with the
weather and the altitude.... The earth seemed hidden under a fine
web such as the Lady of Shalott wove. Soft purple in the west,
changing to shimmering white in the east. Under me on the left
the Vosges like rounded sand dunes cushioned up with velvety
light and dark masses (really forests), but to the south standing
firmly above the purple cloth like icebergs shone the Alps. My!
they look steep and jagged. The sharp blue shadows on their
western slopes emphasized the effect. One mighty group standing
aloof to the west--Mount Blanc perhaps. Ah, there are quantities
of worm-eaten fields my friends the trenches--and that town with
the canal going through it must be M----. Right beside the capote
of my engine, showing through the white cloth a silver snake--the
Rhine!

What, not a quarter to six, and I left the field at five!
Thirty-two hundred metres. Let's go north and have a look at the
map.

While thus engaged a black puff of smoke appeared behind my tail
and I had the impression of hearing a piece of iron hiss by.
"Must have got my range first shot!" I surmised, and making a
steep bank piqued heavily. "There, I have lost them now." The
whole art of avoiding shells is to pay no attention till they get
your range and then dodge away, change altitude, and generally
avoid going in a straight line. In point of fact, I could see
bunches of exploding shells up over my right shoulder not a
kilometre off. They continued to shell that section for some
time; the little balls of smoke thinning out and merging as they
crossed the lines.

