_Adjt. Prince_: Senator, there are about four kinds of machines
used abroad on the western front to-day. The machines that Adjt.
Rumsey and myself are looking after are called the battle
machines. Then there are the photography machines, machines that
go up to enable the taking of photographs of the German
batteries, go back of the line and take views of the country
behind their lines and find out what their next line of attack
will be, or, if they retreat from the present line, then
everything in that way. Probably we have, where we are, in my
group alone, a hundred and fifty photographers who do nothing all
day long except develop pictures, and you can get pictures of any
part of the country that you want. When the Germans retreated
from the old line where they used to be, by Peronne and Chaulnes,
we had absolute pictures of all the Hindenburg line from where
they are now right down to St. Quentin, down to the line the
French are on. We had photographs of it all.

_Senator Kirby_: When they started on the retreat?

[Illustration: © Kadel & Herbert.

_Miss Ruth Law at Close of her Chicago to New York Flight._]

_Adjt. Prince_: Yes, sir. So we knew exactly where their stand
would be made. Then, besides that, those photograph machines do a
lot of scouting. They have a pilot and a photographer aboard. He
has not only a camera, but quite often he has a Lewis gun with
him in order to ward off any hostile airmen if they should get
through the battle planes that are above him; in other words,
should get through us in order to fight him. They do a great deal
of the scouting, because they fly at a lower level. The battle
planes go up to protect photography machines, or to go
man-hunting, as it is called; in other words, to fight the
Germans. We fly all day, like to-day, as high as we can go, or as
high as the French go as a rule, about 5500 metres, about 17,000
to 18,000 feet.

[Illustration: © International Film Service.

_A French Aviator between Flights._]

