_The Chairman_: Are you always attacked from above?

_Adjt. Prince_: By airplanes; yes, sir. It is always much safer
to attack from above.

Then you have the bomb-dropping machines, which carry a lot of
weight. They go out sometimes in the daytime, but mostly at
night, and they have these new sights by which they can stay up
quite high in the air and still know the spot they are going at.
They know the wind speed, they know their height, and they can
figure out by this new arrangement they have exactly when the
time is to let go their bombs.

_Senator Kirby_: Something in the nature of a range-finder?

_Adjt. Prince_: A sort of range-finder.

_Adjt. Rumsey_: It is a sort of telescope that looks down between
your legs, and you have to regulate yourself, observing your
speed, and when you see the spot, you have to touch a button and
off go these things.

_Adjt. Rumsey_: In a raid my brother went on there were
sixty-eight machines that left; the French heavy machines, the
English heavy machines, and then the English sort of
half-fighting machine and half-bombing machine. They call it a
Sopwith, and it is a very good machine. They went over there, and
the first ones over were the Frenchmen, and they dropped bombs on
these Mauser works, and the only thing that the English saw was a
big cloud of smoke and dust, and they could not see the works so
they just dropped into them. Out of that raid the fighting
machines got eight Germans and dropped them, and the Germans got
eight Frenchmen. So, out of sixty-eight they lost eight, but we
also got eight Germans and dropped six tons of this stuff, which
is twenty times as strong as the melinite. We do not know what
the name of the powder is. The fighting machines on that trip
only carried gasolene for two hours, and the other ones carried
it for something like six hours, so we escorted them out for an
hour, came back to our lines, filled up with gasolene, went out
and met them and brought them back over the danger zone.

