_Adjt. Prince_: Near the trenches is where the danger zone is,
because there the German fighting machines are located.

_Senator Kirby_: How far was it from your battle front that you
went?

_Adjt. Rumsey_: I think it was about 500 miles, 250 there and 250
back; it was between 200 and 250 miles there.

_Senator Kirby_: Beyond the battle front?

_Adjt. Rumsey_: Yes; or, to be more accurate, I think it was
nearer 200 than 250.

_The Chairman_: What do you think of the function of the airplane
as a determining factor?

_Adjt. Prince_: There is no doubt that if we could send over in
huge waves a great number of these bomb-dropping machines, and
simply lay the country waste--for instance, the big cities like
Strassburg, Freiburg, and others--not only would the damage done
be great, but I guess the popular opinion in Germany, everything
being laid waste, would work very strongly in the minds of the
public toward having peace. I do not think you could destroy an
army, because you could not see them, but you could go to
different stations; you could go to Strassburg, to Brussels, and
places like that.

_The Chairman_: Then, sending them over in enormous numbers would
also put out of business their airplanes, and they would be
helpless, would they not?

_Adjt. Prince_: Absolutely. You not only have on the front a
large number of bomb-dropping machines, but a large number of
fighting machines. When the Somme battle was started in the
morning the Germans knew, naturally, that the French and British
were going to start the Somme drive, and they had up these
Drachens, these observation balloons, and the first eighteen
minutes that the battle started the French and the English, I
think, got twenty-one "saucisse"; in other words, for the next
five days there was not a single German who came anywhere near
the lines, but the French and English could go ahead as they-felt
like.

_Admiral Peary_: Have you any idea as to how many airplanes there
are along that western front on the German side?

