I think we made some inquiries about the safety of submarine
boats in general. Other water compartments had been flooded, and
we had settled so far down that the waves dashed repeatedly over
the platform on which we stood--and the conning-tower was still
wide open, inviting a sudden engulfing rush of water. "You
mustn't confuse the _Argonaut_ with ordinary submarine boats,"
said Mr. Lake. "She is quite different and much safer."

[Illustration: Â© U. & U.

_For Anti-Aircraft Service._]

He explained that the _Argonaut_ was not only a submarine boat,
but much besides. She not only swims either on the surface or
beneath it, but she adds to this accomplishment the extraordinary
power of diving deep and rolling along the bottom of the sea on
wheels. No machine ever before did that. Indeed, the _Argonaut_
is more properly a "sea motorcycle" than a "boat." In its
invention Mr. Lake elaborated an idea which the United States
Patent Office has decided to be absolutely original.

[Illustration: Photo by Bain News Service.

_The Latest French Aircraft Gun._]

We found ourselves in a long, narrow compartment, dimly
illuminated by yellowish-green light from the little round, glass
windows. The stern was filled with Wilson's gasoline engine and
the electric motor, and in front of us toward the bow we could
see through the heavy steel doorways of the diver's compartment
into the lookout room, where there was a single round eye of
light.

I climbed up the ladder of the conning-tower and looked out
through one of the glass ports. My eyes were just even with the
surface of the water. A wave came driving and foaming entirely
over the top of the vessel, and I could see the curiously
beautiful sheen of the bright summit of the water above us. It
was a most impressive sight. Mr. Lake told me that in very clear
water it was difficult to tell just where the air left off and
the water began; but in the muddy bay where we were going down
the surface looked like a peculiarly clear, greenish pane of
glass moving straight up and down, not forward, as the waves
appear to move when looked at from above.

