He paused to light his pipe, and added, quite gravely, "When she
had disappeared behind the steamer I gave the order 'Cease fire,'
to avoid hitting the larger vessel."

I made a mental note of his thoughtfulness; but, not for worlds
would I have shown any doubt of his power to blast his way, if
necessary, through all the wood and iron in the universe; and I
was glad that the blue clouds of our smoke mingled for a moment
between us.

"I saw two white boats off the port quarter," he continued. "But
I paid no attention to them. I ordered the helm to be
star-boarded a bit more, and told the gunner to train his gun on
the bow of the steamer; for I expected the submarine to show
there next. A few minutes later she did so, and when she drew
ahead I gave the order to fire. I should say we were about a mile
and a quarter away. We gave him two more shots and they dropped
very close, as the spray rose over his conning tower. He altered
his course directly away from us, and we continued to fire. The
third shot smothered his conning tower with spray. I did not see
the fourth and fifth shots pitch. There was no splash visible,
although it was then broad daylight; so I believe they must have
hit him. A few moments after this the submarine disappeared.

"I turned, then, toward the two white boats and hailed them. The
chief officer of the steamer was in charge of one. They were
returning to their ship, and told me that we had hit the
submarine. We escorted them through the nets and parted very good
friends."

"But how did you get the scalp of this U-boat?" I asked.

"We signalled to the admiral, and sent the Daffy to investigate.
She found the place, all right. It was a choppy sea, but there
was one smooth patch in it, just where we told 'em the submarine
had disappeared; a big patch of water like wavy satin, two or
three hundred yards of it, coloured like the stripes on mackerel,
all blue and green with oil. They took a specimen of the oil."

"Did it satisfy the Admiralty?"

