But they did endure it. They remained erect like so many heroes,
they did their duty, exhausted, glowing hot, and bathed in sweat,
until the storm centre lay behind us, until the weather cleared,
until the sun broke through the clouds, and the diminishing seas
permitted us once more to open the hatches.[4]

[Footnote 4: ©]

The _Deutschland_ was now near her goal. Without any trouble she
entered Hampton Roads and was docked at Baltimore. There her cargo
was discharged and her return cargo loaded. This latter operation
involved many difficulties. During her stay a United States
Government Commission made a detailed inspection of the
_Deutschland_ to determine beyond all question her mercantile
character. But at last the day of departure, August 1, had arrived.
Properly escorted she made the trip down the Patapsco River and
Chesapeake Bay. On her way down she made again diving trials which
Captain König describes as follows:

In order to see that everything else was tight and in good order,
I gave the command to set the boat upon the sea bottom at a spot
which, according to the reading upon the chart, had a depth of
some 30 meters.

Once again everything grew silent. The daylight vanished the
well-known singing and boiling noise of the submerging vents
vibrated about us. In my turret I fixed my eyes upon the
manometer. Twenty meters were recorded, then twenty-five. The
water ballast was diminished--thirty meters appeared and I waited
the slight bump which was to announce the arrival of the boat at
the bottom.

Nothing of the sort happened.

Instead of this the indicator upon the dial pointed to 32--to
33--to 35 meters....

I knocked against the glass with my finger--correct--the arrow
was just pointing toward thirty-six.

"Great thunder! what's up?" I cried, and reached for the chart.
Everything tallied. Thirty meters were indicated at this spot and
our reckoning had been most exact.

And we continued to sink deeper and deeper.

