[Illustration]

It was not till several months had passed, and every phase of the
problem had been thrashed over and over, that the various reactions
began to untangle themselves. When once a clear understanding had been
obtained there was no difficulty in designing suitable propellers, with
proper diameter, pitch, and area of blade, to meet the requirements of
the flyer. High efficiency in a screw-propeller is not dependent upon
any particular or peculiar shape; and there is no such thing as a "best"
screw. A propeller giving a high dynamic efficiency when used upon one
machine may be almost worthless when used upon another. The propeller
should in every case be designed to meet the particular conditions of
the machine to which it is to be applied. Our first propellers, built
entirely from calculation, gave in useful work 66 per cent. of the power
expended. This was about one-third more than had been secured by Maxim
or Langley.

The first flights with the power machine were made on December 17, 1903.
Only five persons besides ourselves were present. These were Messrs.
John T. Daniels, W. S. Dough, and A. D. Etheridge, of the Kill Devil
Life-Saving Station; Mr. W. C. Brinkley, of Manteo; and Mr. John Ward,
of Naghead. Although a general invitation had been extended to the
people living within five or six miles, not many were willing to face
the rigors of a cold December wind in order to see, as they no doubt
thought, another flying machine not fly. The first flight lasted only 12
seconds, a flight very modest compared with that of birds, but it was,
nevertheless, the first in the history of the world in which a machine
carrying a man had raised itself by its own power into the air in free
flight, had sailed forward on a level course without reduction of speed,
and had finally landed without being wrecked. The second and third
flights were a little longer, and the fourth lasted 59 seconds, covering
a distance of 852 feet over the ground against a 20-mile wind.

