These objections, which seem to have hitherto proved unsurmountable with
such as might have been inclined to attempt the history of Sumatra, would
also have deterred me from an undertaking apparently so arduous, had I
not reflected that those circumstances in which consisted the principal
difficulty were in fact the least interesting to the public, and of the
least utility in themselves. It is of but small importance to determine
with precision whether a few villages on this or that particular river
belong to one petty chief or to another; whether such a nation is divided
into a greater or lesser number of tribes; or which of two neighbouring
powers originally did homage to the other for its title. History is only
to be prized as it tends to improve our knowledge of mankind, to which
such investigations contribute in a very small degree. I have therefore
attempted rather to give a comprehensive than a circumstantial
description of the divisions of the country into its various governments;
aiming at a more particular detail in what respects the customs,
opinions, arts, and industry of the original inhabitants in their most
genuine state. The interests of the European powers who have established
themselves on the island; the history of their settlements, and of the
revolutions of their commerce I have not considered as forming a part of
my plan; but these subjects, as connected with the accounts of the native
inhabitants and the history of their governments, are occasionally
introduced.

I was principally encouraged to this undertaking by the promises of
assistance I received from some ingenious and very highly esteemed
friends who resided with me in Sumatra. It has also been urged to me here
in England that, as the subject is altogether new, it is a duty incumbent
on me to lay the information I am in possession of, however defective,
before the public, who will not object to its being circumscribed whilst
its authenticity remains unimpeachable. This last quality is that which I
can with the most confidence take upon me to vouch for. The greatest
portion of what I have described has fallen within the scope of my own
immediate observation; the remainder is either matter of common notoriety
to every person residing in the island, or received upon the concurring
authority of gentlemen whose situation in the East India Company's
service, long acquaintance with the natives, extensive knowledge of their
language, ideas, and manners, and respectability of character, render
them worthy of the most implicit faith that can be given to human
testimony.

