Rice (Oryza sativa) whilst in the husk is called padi by the Malays (from
whose language the word seems to have found its way to the maritime parts
of the continent of India), bras when deprived of the husk, and nasi
after it has been boiled; besides which it assumes other names in its
various states of growth and preparation. This minuteness of distinction
applies also to some other articles of common use, and may be accounted
for upon this principle: that amongst people whose general objects of
attention are limited, those which do of necessity occupy them are liable
to be more the subject of thought and conversation than in more
enlightened countries where the ideas of men have an extensive range. The
kinds of rice also (whether technically of different species I cannot
pronounce) are very numerous, but divided in the first place into the two
comprehensive classes of padi ladang or upland, from its growing in high,
dry grounds, and padi sawah (vulgarly pronounced sawur or sour) or
lowland, from its being planted in marshes; each of which is said to
contain ten or fifteen varieties, distinct in shape, size, and colour of
the grain, modes of growth, and delicacy of flavour; it being observed
that in general the larger-grained rice is not so much prized by the
natives as that which is small, when at the same time white and in some
degree transparent.* To M. Poivre, in his Travels of a Philosopher, we
are indebted for first pointing out these two classes when speaking of
the agriculture of Cochin-China. The qualities of the ladang, or upland
rice, are held to be superior to those of the sawah, being whiter, more
nourishing, better tasted and having the advantage in point of keeping.
Its mode of culture too is free from the charge of unhealthiness
attributed to the latter, which is of a watery substance, is attended
with less increase in boiling, and is subject to a swifter decay; but of
this the rate of produce from the seed is much greater, and the certainty
of the crops more to be depended on. It is accordingly cheaper and in
more common use. The seed of each sort is kept separate by the natives,
who assert that they will not grow reciprocally.

