(*Footnote. I have in my possession specimens of a variety of species
which were transmitted to me twelve years ago and are still perfectly
sound.)

The price of this necessary of life differs considerably throughout the
island, not only from the circumstances of the season but according to
the general demand at the places where it is purchased, the degree of
industry excited by such demand, and the aptitude of the country to
supply it. The northern parts of the coast under the influence of the
Achinese produce large quantities; particularly Susu and Tampat-tuan,
where it is (or used to be) purchased at the rate of thirty bamboos
(gallons) for the Spanish dollar, and exported either to Achin or to the
settlement of Natal for the use of the Residency of Fort Marlborough. At
Natal also, and for the same ultimate destination, is collected the
produce of the small island of Nias, whose industrious inhabitants,
living themselves upon the sweet-potato (Convolvulus batatas), cultivate
rice for exportation only, encouraged by the demand from the English and
(what were) the Dutch factories. Not any is exported from Natal of its
actual produce; a little from Ayer Bungi; more from the extensive but
neglected districts of Pasaman and Masang, and many cargoes from the
country adjacent to Padang. Our pepper settlements to the northward of
Fort Marlborough, from Moco-moco to Laye inclusive, export each a small
quantity, but from thence southward to Kroi supplies are required for the
subsistence of the inhabitants, the price varying from twelve to four
bamboos according to the season. At our head settlement the consumption
of the civil and military establishments, the company's LABOURERS,
together with the Chinese and Malayan settlers, so much exceeds the
produce of the adjoining districts (although exempted from any obligation
to cultivate pepper) that there is a necessity for importing a quantity
from the islands of Java and Bally, and from Bengal about three to six
thousand bags annually.*

