DURIAN.

The durian (Durio zibethinus) is also peculiar to the Malayan countries.
It is a rich fruit but strong and even offensive in taste as well as
smell, to those who are not accustomed to it, and of a very heating
quality; yet the natives (and others who fall into their habits) are
passionately addicted to it, and during the time of its continuing in
season live almost wholly upon its luscious and cream-like pulp; whilst
the rinds, thrown about in the bazaars, communicate their scent to the
surrounding atmosphere. The tree is large and lofty; the leaves are small
in proportion, but in themselves long and pointed. The blossoms grow in
clusters on the stem and larger branches. The petals are five, of a
yellowish-white, surrounding five branches of stamina, each bunch
containing about twelve, and each stamen having four antherae. The
pointal is knobbed at top. When the stamina and petal fall, the
empalement resembles a fungus, and nearly in shape a Scot's bonnet. The
fruit is in its general appearance not unlike the bread-fruit, but
larger, and its coat is rougher.

BREAD-FRUIT.

The sutun kapas, and sukun biji or kalawi, are two species of the
bread-fruit-tree (Artocarpus incisa). The former is the genuine, edible
kind, without kernels, and propagated by cuttings of the roots. Though by
no means uncommon, it is said not to be properly a native of Sumatra. The
kalawi, on the contrary, is in great abundance, and its bark supplies the
country people with a sort of cloth for their working dresses. The leaves
of both species are deeply indented, like those of the fig, but
considerably longer. The bread-fruit is cut in slices, and, being boiled
or broiled on the fire, is eaten with sugar, and much esteemed. It cannot
however be considered as an article of food, and I suspect that in
quality it is inferior to the bread-fruit of the South-Sea Islands.

JACK-FRUIT.

The Malabaric name of jacca, or the jack-fruit, is applied both to the
champadak or chapada (Artocarpus integrifolia, L. and Polyphema jaca,
Lour.) and to the nangka (Artocarpus integrifolia, L. and Polyphema
champeden, Lour). Of the former the leaves are smooth and pointed; of the
latter they are roundish, resembling those of the cashew. This is the
more common, less esteemed, and larger fruit, weighing, in some
instances, fifty or sixty pounds. Both grow in a peculiar manner from the
stem of the tree. The outer coat is rough, containing a number of seeds
or kernels (which, when roasted, have the taste of chestnuts) inclosed in
a fleshy substance of a rich, and, to strangers, too strong smell and
flavour, but which gains upon the palate. When the fruit ripens the
natives cover it with mats or the like to preserve it from injury by the
birds. Of the viscous juice of this tree they make a kind of birdÂ­lime:
the yellow wood is employed for various purposes, and the root yields a
dye-stuff.

