POMEGRANATE.

The pomegranate or dalima (Punica granatum) flourishes here, as in all
warm climates.

GRAPES, ETC.

Grape-vines are planted with success by Europeans for their tables, but
not cultivated by the people of the country. There is found in the woods
a species of wild grape, called pringat (Vitis indica); and also a
strawberry, the blossom of which is yellow, and the fruit has little
flavour. Beside these there are many other, for the most part wild,
fruits, of which some boast a fine flavour, and others are little
superior to our common berries, but might be improved by culture. Such
are the buah kandis, a variety of garcinia (it should be observed that
buah, signifying fruit, is always prefixed to the particular name), buah
malaka (Phyllanthus emblica), rukam (Carissa spinarum), bangkudu or
mangkudu (Morinda citrifolia), sikaduduk (melastoma), kitapan (Callicarpa
japonica).

FLOWERS.

"You breathe in the country of the Malays (says the writer before quoted)
an air impregnated with the odours of innumerable flowers of the greatest
fragrance, of which there is a perpetual succession throughout the year,
the sweet flavour of which captivates the soul, and inspires the most
voluptuous sensations." Although this luxurious picture may be drawn in
too-warm tints it is not however without its degree of justness. The
people of the country are fond of flowers in the ornament of their
persons, and encourage their growth, as well as that of various
odoriferous shrubs and trees.

KANANGA.

The kananga (Uvaria cananga, L.) being a tree of the largest size,
surpassed by few in the forest, may well take the lead, on that account,
in a description of those which bear flowers. These are of a greenish
yellow, scarcely distinguishable from the leaves, among which the bunches
hang down in a peculiar manner. About sunset, if the evening be calm,
they diffuse a fragrance around that affects the sense at the distance of
some hundred yards.

