NYCTANTHES.

The bunga malati and bunga malur (Nyctanthes sambac) are different names
for the same humble plant, called mugri in Bengal. It bears a pretty
white flower, diffusing a more exquisite fragrance, in the opinion of
most persons, than any other of which the country boasts. It is much worn
by the females; sometimes in wreaths, and various combinations, along
with the bunga tanjong, and frequently the unblown buds are strung in
imitation of rows of pearls. It should be remarked that the appellative
bunga, or flower, (pronounced bungo in the south-western parts of
Sumatra), is almost ever prefixed to the proper name, as buah is to
fruits. There is also the malati china (Nyctanthes multiflora); the
elegant bunga malati susun (Nyctanthes acuminata).

PERGULARIA.

And the celebrated bunga tonking (Pergularia odoratissima), whose
fascinating sweets have been widely dispersed in England by the
successful culture and liberal participation of Sir Joseph Banks. At
Madras it obtained the appellation of West-coast, i.e. Sumatran, creeper,
which marks the quarter from whence it was obtained. At Bencoolen the
same appellation is familiarly applied to the bunga tali-tali (Ipomoea
quamoclit), a beautiful, little, monopetalous flower, divided into five
angular segments, and closing at sunset. From its bright crimson colour
it received from Rumphius the name of Flos cardinalis. The plant is a
luxuriant creeper, with a hairlike leaf.

Pavetta indica, ETC.

The angsuka, or bunga jarum-jarum (Pavetta indica), obtained from
Rumphius, on account of the glowing red colour of its long calices, the
name of flamma sylvarum peregrina. The bunga marak (Poinciana
pulcherrima) is a most splendid flower, the colours being a mixture of
yellow and scarlet, and its form being supposed to resemble the crest of
the peacock, from whence its Malayan name, which Rumphius translated. The
nagasari (Calophyllum nagassari) bears a much admired blossom, well known
in Bengal; but in the upper parts of India, called nagakehÂ­sir, and in
the Batavian Transactions Acacia aurea. The bakong, or salandap (Crinum
asiaticum), is a plant of the lily kind, with six large, white,
turbinated petals of an agreeable scent. It grows wild near the beach
amongst those plants which bind the loose sands. Another and beautiful
species of the bakong has a deep shade of purple mixed with the white.
The kachubong (Datura metel) appears also to flourish mostly by the
seaside. It bears a white infundibuliform flower, rather pentagonal than
round, with a small hook at each angle. The leaves are dark green,
pointed, broad and unequal at the bottom. The fruit is shaped like an
apple, very prickly, and full of small seeds. Sundal malam or harlot of
the night (Polyanthes tuberosa) is so termed from the circumstance of its
diffusing its sweet odours at that season. It is the tuberose of our
gardens, but growing with great vigour and luxuriance. The bunga mawur
(Rosa semperflorens, Curtis, Number 284), is small and of a deep crimson
colour. Its scent is delicate and by no means so rich as that yielded by
the roses of our climate. The Amaranthus cristatus (Celosia castrensis,
L.) is probably a native, being found commonly in the interior of the
Batta country, where strangers have rarely penetrated. The various
species of this genus are called by the general name of bayam, of which
some are edible, as before observed.

