To the foregoing list, in every respect imperfect, many interesting
plants might be added by an attentive and qualified observer. The natives
themselves have a degree of botanical knowledge that surprises Europeans.
They are in general, and at a very early age, acquainted not only with
the names, but the properties of every shrub and herb amongst that
exuberant variety with which the island is clothed. They distinguish the
sexes of many plants and trees, and divide several of the genera into as
many species as our professors. Of the paku or fern I have had specimens
brought to me of twelve sorts, which they told me were not the whole, and
to each they gave a distinct name.

MEDICINAL HERBS.

Some of the shrubs and herbs employed medicinally are as follows.
Scarcely any of them are cultivated, being culled from the woods or
plains as they happen to be wanted.

Lagundi (Vitex trifolia, L.) The botanic characters of this shrub are
well known. The leaves, which are bitter and pungent rather than
aromatic, are considered as a powerful antiseptic, and are employed in
fevers in the place of Peruvian bark. They are also put into granaries
and among cargoes of rice to prevent the destruction of the grain by
weevils.

Katupong resembles the nettle in growth, in fruit the blackberry. I have
not been able to identify it. The leaf, being chewed, is used in dressing
small fresh wounds.

Siup, a kind of wild fig, is applied to the scurf or leprosy of the Nias
people, when not inveterate.

Sikaduduk (melastoma) has the appearance of a wild rose. A decoction of
its leaves is used for the cure of a disorder in the sole of the foot,
called maltus, resembling the impetigo or ringworm.

Ampadu-bruang or bear's gall (brucea, foliis serratis) is the lussa raja
of Rumphius, excessively bitter, and applied in infusion for the relief
of disorders in the bowels.

Kabu (unknown). Of this the bark and root are used for curing the kudis
or itch, by rubbing it on the part affected.

