Marampuyan (a new genus). The young shoots of this, being supposed to
have a refreshing and corroborating quality, are rubbed over the body and
limbs after violent fatigue.

Mali-mali (unknown). The leaf of this plant, which bears a white
umbellated blossom, is applied to reduce swellings.

Chapo (Conyza balsamifera) resembles the sage (salvia) in colour, smell,
taste, and qualities, but grows to the height of six feet, has a long
jagged leaf, and its blossom resembles that of groundsel.

Murribungan (unknown). The leaves of this climber are broad, roundish,
and smooth. The juice of its stalk is applied to heal excoriations of the
tongue.

Ampi-ampi (unknown). A climbing plant with leaves resembling the box, and
a small flosculous blossom. It is used as a medicine in fevers.

Kadu (species of piper), with a leaf in shape and taste resembling the
betel. It is burned to preserve children newly born from the influence of
evil spirits.

Gumbai (unknown). A shrub with monopetalous, stillated, purple flowers,
growing in tufts. The leaves are used in disorders of the bowels.

Tabulan bukan (unknown). A shrub bearing a semiflosculous blossom,
applied to the cure of sore eyes.

Kachang prang (Dolichos ensiformis). The pods of this are of a huge size,
and the beans, of a fine crimson colour, are used in diseases of the
pleura.

Sipit, a species of fig, with a large oval leaf, rough to the touch, and
rigid. An infusion of it is swallowed in iliac affections.

Daun se-dingin (Cotyledon laciniata). This leaf, as the name denotes, is
of a remarkably cold quality. It is applied to the forehead to cure the
headache, and sometimes to the body in fevers.

Long pepper (Piper longum) is used medicinally.

Turmeric, also, mixed with rice reduced to powder and then formed into a
paste, is much used outwardly in cases of colds and pains in the bones;
and chunam or quick-lime is likewise commonly rubbed on parts of the body
affected with pain.

