PEACOCK, ETC.

The peacock, burong marak (pavo), appears to be well known to the
natives, though I believe not common.

I should say the same of the eagle and the vulture (coracias), to the one
or the other of which the name of raja wali is familiarly applied.

The kite, alang (falco), is very common, as is the crow, gadak (corvus),
and jackdaw, pong (gracula), with several species of the woodpecker.

The kingfisher (alcedo) is named burong buaya, or the alligator-bird.

The bird-of-paradise, burong supan, or elegant-bird, is known here only
in the dried state, as brought from the Moluccas and coast of New Guinea
(tanah papuah).


(PLATE 15. BEAKS OF THE BUCEROS OR HORN-BILL.
M. de Jonville delt. Swaine sc.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


The rhinoceros bird, hornbill, or calao (buceros), called by the natives
anggang and burong taun, is chiefly remarkable for what is termed the
horn, which in the most common species extends halfway down the upper
mandible of its large beak, and then turns up; but the varieties of shape
are numerous. The length of one I measured whilst alive was ten inches
and a half; the breadth, including the horn, six and a half; length from
beak to tail four feet; wings four feet six inches; height one foot;
length of neck one foot; the beak whitish; the horn yellow and red; the
body black; the tail white ringed with black; rump, and feathers on the
legs down to the heel, white; claws three before and one behind; the iris
red. In a hen chick there was no appearance of a horn, and the iris was
whitish. They eat either boiled rice or tender fresh meat. Of the use of
such a singular cavity I could not learn any plausible conjecture. As a
receptacle for water, it must be quite unnecessary in the country of
which it is a native.

STORK, ETC.

Of the stork kind there are several species, some of great height and
otherwise curious, as the burong kambing and burong ular, which frequent
the rice plantations in wet ground.

