DESCRIPTION OF THE PEPPER-VINE.

The pepper-vine is, in its own climate, a hardy plant, growing readily
from cuttings or layers, rising in several knotted stems, twining round
any neighbouring support, and adhering to it by fibres that shoot from
every joint at intervals of six to ten inches, and from which it probably
derives a share of its nourishment. If suffered to run along the ground
these fibres would become roots; but in this case (like the ivy) it would
never exhibit any appearance of fructification, the prop being necessary
for encouraging it to throw out its bearing shoots. It climbs to the
height of twenty or twenty-five feet, but thrives best when restrained to
twelve or fifteen, as in the former case the lower part of the vine bears
neither leaves nor fruit, whilst in the latter it produces both from
within a foot of the ground. The stalk soon becomes ligneous, and in time
acquires considerable thickness. The leaves are of a deep green and
glossy surface, heart-shaped, pointed, not pungent to the taste, and have
but little smell. The branches are short and brittle, not projecting
above two feet from the stem, and separating readily at the joints. The
blossom is small and white, the fruit round, green when young and
fullÂ­grown, and turning to a bright red when ripe and in perfection. It
grows abundantly from all the branches in long small clusters of twenty
to fifty grains, somewhat resembling bunches of currants, but with this
difference, that every grain adheres to the common stalk, which occasions
the cluster of pepper to be more compact, and it is also less pliant.

MODES OF PROPAGATING IT.

The usual mode of propagating the pepper is by cuttings, a foot or two in
length, of the horizontal shoots that run along the ground from the foot
of the old vines (called lado sulur), and one or two of these are planted
within a few inches of the young chinkareen at the same time with it if
of the long kind, or six months after if of the short kind, as before
described. Some indeed prefer an interval of twelve months; as in good
soil the luxuriancy of the vine will often overpower and bear down the
prop, if it has not first acquired competent strength. In such soil the
vine rises two or three feet in the course of the first year, and four or
five more in the second, by which time, or between the second and third
year of its growth, it begins to show its blossom (be-gagang), if in fact
it can be called such, being nothing more than the germ of the future
bunch of fruit, of a light straw colour, darkening to green as the fruit
forms. These germs or blossoms are liable to fall untimely (gugur) in
very dry weather, or to be shaken off in high winds (although from this
accident the gardens are in general well sheltered by the surrounding
woods), when, after the fairest promise, the crop fails.

