In order to lighten the labour of the cultivator, who has also the
indispensable task of raising grain for himself and his family, it is a
common practice, and not attended with any detriment to the gardens, to
sow padi in the ground in which the chinkareens have been planted, and
when this has become about six inches high, to plant the cuttings of the
vines, suffering the shoots to creep along the ground until the crop has
been taken off, when they are trained to the chinkareens, the shade of
the corn being thought favourable to the young plants.

PROGRESS OF BEARING.

The vines, as has been observed, generally begin to bear in the course of
the third year from the time of planting, but the produce is retarded for
one or two seasons by the process just described; after which it
increases annually for three years, when the garden (about the seventh or
eighth year) is esteemed in its prime, or at its utmost produce; which
state it maintains, according to the quality of the soil, from one to
four years, when it gradually declines for about the same period until it
is no longer worth the labour of keeping it in order. From some, in good
ground, fruit has been gathered at the age of twenty years; but such
instances are uncommon. On the first appearance of decline it should be
renewed, as it is termed; but, to speak more properly, another garden
should be planted to succeed it, which will begin to bear before the old
one ceases.

MODE OF PRUNING.

The vine having acquired its full growth, and being limited by the height
of the chinkareen, sometimes grows bushy and overhangs at top, which,
being prejudicial to the lower parts, must be corrected by pruning or
thinning the top branches, and this is done commonly by hand, as they
break readily at every joint. Suckers too, or superfluous sideÂ­shoots
(charang), which spring luxuriantly, are to be plucked away. The ground
of the garden must be kept perfectly clear of weeds, shrubs, and whatever
might injure or tend to choke the plants. During the hot months of June,
July, and August the finer kinds of grass may be permitted to cover the
ground, as it contributes to mitigate the effects of the sun's power, and
preserves for a longer time the dews, which at that season fall
copiously; but the rank species, called lalang, being particularly
difficult to eradicate, should not be suffered to fix itself, if it can
be avoided. As the vines increase in size and strength less attention to
the ground is required, and especially as their shade tends to check the
growth of weeds. In lopping the branches of the chinkareens preparatory
to the rains, some dexterity is required that they may fall clear of the
vine, and the business is performed with a sharp prang or bill that
generally separates at one stroke the light pithy substance of the bough.
For this purpose, as well as that of gathering the fruit, light
triangular ladders made of bamboo are employed.

