NUTMEGS AND CLOVES.

It is well known with what jealousy and rigour the Batavian government
has guarded against the transplantation of the trees producing nutmegs
and cloves from the islands of Banda and Amboina to other parts of India.
To elude its vigilance many attempts have been made by the English, who
considered Sumatra to be well adapted, from its local circumstances, to
the cultivation of these valuable spices; but all proved ineffectual,
until the reduction of the eastern settlements in 1796 afforded the
wished for opportunity, which was eagerly seized by Mr. Robert Broff, at
that period chief of the Residency of Fort Marlborough. As the culture is
now likely to become of importance to the trade of this country, and the
history of its introduction may hereafter be thought interesting, I shall
give it in Mr. Broff's own words:

The acquisition of the nutmeg and clove plants became an object of my
solicitude the moment I received by Captain Newcombe, of his Majesty's
ship Orpheus, the news of the surrender of the islands where they are
produced; being convinced, from the information I had received, that the
country in the neighbourhood of Bencoolen, situated as it is in the same
latitude with the Moluccas, exposed to the same periodical winds, and
possessing the same kind of soil, would prove congenial to their culture.
Under this impression I suggested to the other members of the Board the
expediency of freighting a vessel for the twofold purpose of sending
supplies to the forces at Amboina, for which they were in distress, and
of bringing in return as many spice-plants as could be conveniently
stowed. The proposition was acceded to, and a vessel, of which I was the
principal owner (no other could be obtained), was accordingly dispatched
in July 1806; but the plan was unfortunately frustrated by the imprudent
conduct of a person on the civil establishment to whom the execution was
entrusted. Soon afterwards however I had the good fortune to be more
successful, in an application I made to Captain Hugh Moore, who commanded
the Phoenix country ship, to undertake the importation, stipulating with
him to pay a certain sum for every healthy plant he should deliver.

