BENZOIN.

Benzoin or Benjamin (Styrax benzoin*) called by the Malays kamiÂ­nian, is,
like the camphor, found almost exclusively in the Batta country, to the
northward of the equator, but not in the Achinese dominions immediately
beyond that district. It is also met with, though rarely, south of the
line, but there, either from natural inferiority or want of skill in
collecting it, the small quantity produced is black and of little value.
The tree does not grow to any considerable size, and is of no value as
timber. The seeds or nuts, which are round, of a brown colour, and about
the size of a moderate bolus, are sown in the padi-fields and afterwards
require no other cultivation than to clear away the shrubs from about the
young plants. In some places, especially near the sea-coast, large
plantations of it are formed, and it is said that the natives, sensible
of the great advantage accruing to them from the trade, in a national
point of view, oblige the proprietors, by legal regulation, to keep up
the succession.

(*Footnote. See a Botanical Description of this tree by my friend Mr.
Jonas Dryander, with a plate, in Volume 77 page 307 of the Philosophical
Transactions for the year 1787.)

MODE OF PROCURING IT.

When the trees have attained the age of about seven years, and are six or
eight inches in diameter, incisions are made in the bark, from whence the
balsam or gum (as it is commonly termed, although being soluble in
spirits and not in water, it is rather a resin) exudes, which is
carefully pared off. The purest of the gum, or Head benzoin, is that
which comes from these incisions during the first three years, and is
white, inclining to yellow, soft, and fragrant; after which it gradually
changes to the second sort, which is of a reddish yellow, degenerating to
brown; and at length when the tree, which will not bear a repetition of
the process for more than ten or twelve years, is supposed to be worn
out, they cut it down, and when split in pieces procure, by scraping, the
worst sort, or Foot benzoin, which is dark coloured, hard, and mixed more
or less with parings of the wood and other impurities. The Head is
further distinguished into Europe and India-head, of which the first is
superior, and is the only sort adapted to the home market: the latter,
with most of the inferior sorts, is exported to Arabia,* Persia, and some
parts of India, where it is burned to perfume with its smoke their
temples and private houses, expel troublesome insects, and obviate the
pernicious effects of unwholesome air or noxious exhalations; in addition
to which uses, in the Malayan countries, it is always considered as a
necessary part of the apparatus in administering an oath. It is brought
down from the country for sale in large cakes, called tampang, covered
with mats; and these, as a staple commodity, are employed in their
dealings for a standard of value, to which the price of other things have
reference, as in most parts of the world to certain metals. In order to
pack it in chests it is necessary to soften the coarser sorts with
boiling water; for the finer it is sufficient to break the lumps and to
expose it to the heat of the sun. The greater part of the quantity
brought to England is re-exported from thence to countries where the
Roman Catholic and Mahometan religions prevail, to be there burnt as
incense in the churches and temples.** The remainder is chiefly employed
in medicine, being much esteemed as an expectorant and styptic, and
constitutes the basis of that valuable balsam distinguished by the name
of Turlington, whose very salutary effects, particularly in healing green
and other wounds, is well known to persons abroad who cannot always
obtain surgical assistance. It is also employed, if I am not misinformed,
in the preparation of court sticking-plaster. The gum or resin called
dulang is named by us scented benzoin from its peculiar fragrance. The
rasamala (Lignum papuanum of Rumphius, and Altingia excelsa of the
Batavian Transactions) is a sort of wild benzoin, of little value, and
not, in Sumatra, considered as an object of commerce.

