(*Footnote. Les Arabes tirent beaucoup d'autres sortes d'encens de
l'Habbesch, de Sumatra, Siam, Java, etc. et parmi celles-la une qu'ils
appellent Bachor (bakhor) Java, et que les Anglois nomment Benzoin, est
tres semblable a l'Oliban. On en exporte en grande quantite en Turquie
parles golfes d'Arabie et de Perse, et la moindre des trois especes de
Benzoin, que les marchands vendent, est estimee meilleure que l'Oliban
d'Arabie. Niebuhr, Description de l'Arabie page 126.)

(**Footnote. According to Mr. Jackson the annual importation of Benzoin
at Mogodor from London is about 13,000 pounds annually.)

CASSIA.

Cassia or kulit manis (Laurus cassia) is a coarse species of cinnamon
which flourishes chiefly, as well as the two foregoing articles, in the
northern part of the island; but with this difference, that the camphor
and benzoin grow only near the coast, whereas the cassia is a native of
the central parts of the country. It is mostly procured in those
districts which lie inland of Tapanuli, but it is also found in Musi,
where Palembang River takes its rise. The leaves are about four inches
long, narrower than the bay (to which tribe it belongs) and more pointed;
deep green; smooth surface, and plain edge. The principal fibres take
their rise from the peduncle. The young leaves are mostly of reddish hue.
The blossoms grow six in number upon slender footÂ­stalks, close to the
bottom of the leaf. They are monopetalous, small, white, stellated in six
points. The stamina are six, with one stile, growing from the germen,
which stands up in three brownish segments, resembling a cup. The trees
grow from fifty to sixty feet high, with large, spreading, horizontal
branches, almost as low as the earth. The root is said to contain much
camphor that may be obtained by boiling or other processes unknown on
Sumatra. No pains is bestowed on the cultivation of the cassia. The bark,
which is the part in use, is commonly taken from such of the trees as are
a foot or eighteen inches diameter, for when they are younger it is said
to be so thin as to lose all its qualities very soon. The difference of
soil and situation alters considerably the value of the bark. Those trees
which grow in a high rocky soil have red shoots, and the bark is superior
to that which is produced in a moist clay, where the shoots are green. I
have been assured by a person of extensive knowledge that the cassia
produced on Sumatra is from the same tree which yields the true cinnamon,
and that the apparent difference arises from the less judicious manner of
quilling it. Perhaps the younger and more tender branches should be
preferred; perhaps the age of the tree or the season of the year ought to
be more nicely attended to; and lastly I have known it to be suggested
that the mucilaginous slime which adheres to the inside of the fresh
peeled rind does, when not carefully wiped off, injure the flavour of the
cassia and render it inferior to that of the cinnamon. I am informed that
it has been purchased by Dutch merchants at our India sales, where it
sometimes sold to much loss, and afterwards by them shipped for Spain as
cinnamon, being packed in boxes which had come from Ceylon with that
article. The price it bears in the island is about ten or twelve dollars
the pecul.

