The camphor-wood, so useful for carpenters' purposes, has been already
mentioned.

Kayu pindis or kapini (species of metrosideros), is named also kayu besi,
or iron-wood, on account of its extraordinary hardness, which turns the
edge of common tools.

Marbau (Metrosideros amboinensis, R.) grows to a large size, and is used
for beams both in ship and houseÂ­building, as well as for other purposes
to which oak is applied in Europe. Pinaga is valuable as crooked timber,
and used for frames and knees of ships, being also very durable. It
frequently grows in the wash of the sea.

Juar, ebony, called in the Batavian Catalogue kayu arang, or
charcoal-wood, is found here in great plenty.

Kayu gadis, a wood possessing the flavour and qualities of the sassafras,
and used for the same purposes in medicine, but in the growth of the tree
resembling rather our elm than the laurus (to which latter tribe the
American sassafras belongs), is very common in the plains near Bencoolen.

Kayu arau (Casuarina littorea) is often termed a bastard-pine, and as
such gave name to the Isle of Pines discovered by Captain Cook. By the
Malays it is usually called kayu chamara, from the resemblance of its
branches to the ornamental cowtails of Upper India. It has been already
remarked of this tree, whose wood is not particularly useful, that it
delights in a low sandy soil, and is ever the first that springs up from
land relinquished by the sea.

The rangas or rungi, commonly supposed to be the manchineel of the West
Indies, but perhaps only from the noxious quality of its juices, is the
Arbor vernicis of Rumphius, and particularly described in the Batavian
Transactions Volume 5 under the name of Manga deleteria sylvestris,
fructu parvo cordiformi. In a list of plants in the same volume, by F.
Norona, it is termed Anacardium encardium. The wood has some resemblance
to mahogany, is worked up into articles of furniture, and resists the
destructive ravages of the white ant, but its hardness and acrid sap,
which blisters the hands of those employed about it, are objections to
its general use. I am not aware of the natives procuring a varnish from
this tree.

