IRON.

Iron ore is dug at a place named Turawang, in the eastern part of
Menangkabau, and there smelted, but not, I apprehend, in large
quantities, the consumption of the natives being amply supplied with
English and Swedish bar-iron, which they are in the practice of
purchasing by measure instead of weight.

SULPHUR.

Sulphur (balerang), as has been mentioned, is abundantly procured from
the numerous volcanoes, and especially from that very great one which is
situated about a day's journey inland from Priaman. Yellow Arsenic
(barangan) is also an article of traffic.

SALTPETRE.

In the country of Kattaun, near the head of Urei River, there are
extensive caves (goha) from the soil of which saltpetre (mesiyu mantah)
is extracted. M. Whalfeldt, who was employed as a surveyor, visited them
in March 1773. Into one he advanced seven hundred and fortyÂ­three feet,
when his lights were extinguished by the damp vapour. Into a second he
penetrated six hundred feet, when, after getting through a confined
passage about three feet wide and five in height, an opening in the rock
led to a spacious place forty feet high. The same caves were visited by
Mr. Christopher Terry and Mr. Charles Miller. They are the habitation of
innumerable birds, which are perceived to abound the more the farther you
proceed. Their nests are formed about the upper parts of the cave, and it
is thought to be their dung simply that forms the soil (in many places
from four to six feet deep, and from fifteen to twenty broad) which
affords the nitre. A cubic foot of this earth, measuring seven gallons,
produced on boiling seven pounds fourteen ounces of saltpetre, and a
second experiment gave a ninth part more. This I afterwards saw refined
to a high degree of purity; but I conceive that its value would not repay
the expense of the process.

BIRDS-NEST.

The edible birds-nest, so much celebrated as a peculiar luxury of the
table, especially amongst the Chinese, is found in similar caves in
different parts of the island, but chiefly near the sea-coast, and in the
greatest abundance at its southern extremity. Four miles up the river
Kroi there is one of considerable size. The birds are called
layang-layang, and resemble the common swallow, or perhaps rather the
martin. I had an opportunity of giving to the British Museum some of
these nests with the eggs in them. They are distinguished into white and
black, of which the first are by far the more scarce and valuable, being
found in the proportion of one only to twenty-five. The white sort sells
in China at the rate of a thousand to fifteen hundred dollars the pikul
(according to the Batavian Transactions for nearly its weight in silver),
the black is usually disposed of at Batavia at about twenty or thirty
dollars for the same weight, where I understand it is chiefly converted
into a kind of glue. The difference between the two sorts has by some
been supposed to be owing to the mixture of the feathers of the birds
with the viscous substance of which the nests are formed; and this they
deduce from the experiment of steeping the black nests for a short time
in hot water, when they are said to become white to a certain degree.
Among the natives I have heard a few assert that they are the work of a
different species of bird. It was also suggested to me that the white
might probably be the recent nests of the season in which they were
taken, and the black such as had been used for several years
successively. This opinion appearing plausible, I was particular in my
inquiries as to that point, and learned what seems much to corroborate
it. When the natives prepare to take the nests they enter the cave with
torches, and, forming ladders of bamboos notched according to the usual
mode, they ascend and pull down the nests, which adhere in numbers
together, from the sides and top of the rock. I was informed that the
more regularly the cave is thus stripped the greater proportion of white
nests they are sure to find, and that on this experience they often make
a practice of beating down and destroying the old nests in larger
quantities than they trouble themselves to carry away, in order that they
may find white nests the next season in their room. The birds, I am
assured, are seen, during the building time, in large flocks upon the
beach, collecting in their beaks the foam thrown up by the surf, of which
there appears little doubt of their constructing their gelatinous nests,
after it has undergone, perhaps, some preparation from commixture with
their saliva or other secretion in the beak or the craw; and that this is
the received opinion of the natives appears from the bird being very
commonly named layang-buhi, the foam-swallow. Linnaeus however has
conjectured, and with much plausibility, that it is the animal substance
frequently found on the beach which fishermen call blubber or jellies,
and not the foam of the sea, that these birds collect; and it is proper
to mention that, in a Description of these Nests by M. Hooyman, printed
in Volume 3 of the Batavian Transactions, he is decidedly of opinion that
the substance of them has nothing to do with the sea-foam but is
elaborated from the food of the bird. Mr. John Crisp informed me that he
had seen at Padang a common swallow's nest, built under the eaves of a
house, which was composed partly of common mud and partly of the
substance that constitutes the edible nests. The young birds themselves
are said to be very delicate food, and not inferior in richness of
flavour to the beccafico.

