EARTHENWARE.

Different kinds of earthenware, I have elsewhere observed, are
manufactured in the island.

PERFUMES.

They have a practice of perfuming their hair with oil of benzoin, which
they distil themselves from the gum by a process doubtless of their own
invention. In procuring it a priuk, or earthen rice-pot, covered close,
is used for a retort. A small bamboo is inserted in the side of the
vessel, and well luted with clay and ashes, from which the oil drops as
it comes over. Along with the benzoin they put into the retort a mixture
of sugar-cane and other articles that contribute little or nothing to the
quantity or quality of the distillation; but no liquid is added. This oil
is valued among them at a high price, and can only be used by the
superior rank of people.

OIL.

The oil in general use is that of the coconut, which is procured in the
following manner. The fleshy part being scraped out of the nut, which for
this use must be old, is exposed for some time to the heat of the sun. It
is then put into a mat bag and placed in the press (kampahan) between two
sloping timbers, which are fixed together in a socket in the lower part
of the frame, and forced towards each other by wedges in a groove at top,
compressing by this means the pulp of the nut, which yields an oil that
falls into a trough made for its reception below. In the farther parts of
the country this oil also, owing to the scarcity of coconuts, is dear;
and not so much used for burning as that from other vegetables, and the
dammar or rosin, which is always at hand.

TORCHES.

When travelling at night they make use of torches or links, called suluh,
the common sort of which are nothing more than dried bamboos of a
convenient length, beaten at the joints till split in every part, without
the addition of any resinous or other inflammable substance. A superior
kind is made by filling with dammar a young bamboo, about a cubit long,
well dried, and having the outer skin taken off.

