The want of a written criterion of the laws and the imperfect stability
of traditionary usage must frequently, in the intricacies of their suits,
give rise to contradictory decisions; particularly as the interests and
passions of the chiefs are but too often concerned in the determination
of the causes that come before them.

COMPILATION OF LAWS.

This evil had long been perceived by the English Residents, who, in the
countries where we are settled, preside at the bechars, and, being
instigated by the splendid example of the Governor-general of Bengal (Mr.
Hastings), under whose direction a code of the laws of that empire was
compiled (and translated by Mr. Halhed), it was resolved that the
servants of the Company at each of the subordinates should, with the
assistance of the ablest and most experienced of the natives, attempt to
reduce to writing and form a system of the usages of the Sumatrans in
their respective residencies. This was accordingly executed in some
instances, and, a translation of that compiled in the residency of Laye
coming into my possession, I insert it here, in the original form, as
being attended with more authority and precision than any account
furnished from my own memorandums could pretend to.

REJANG LAWS.

For the more regular and impartial administration of justice in the
Residency of Laye, the laws and customs of the Rejangs, hitherto
preserved by tradition, are now, after being discussed, amended, and
ratified, in an assembly of the pangeran, pambarabs, and proattins,
committed to writing in order that they may not be liable to alteration;
that those deserving death or fine may meet their reward; that causes may
be brought before the proper judges, and due amends made for defaults;
that the compensation for murder may be fully paid; that property may be
equitably divided; that what is borrowed may be restored; that gifts may
become the undoubted property of the receiver; that debts may be paid and
credits received agreeably to the customs that have been ever in force
beneath the heavens and on the face of the earth. By the observance of
the laws a country is made to flourish, and where they are neglected or
violated ruin ensues.

