BECHARS, SUITS, OR TRIALS.

PROCESS IN SUITS.

The plaintiff and defendant first state to the bench the general
circumstances of the case. If their accounts differ, and they consent to
refer the matter to the decision of the proattins or bench, each party is
to give a token, to the value of a suku, that he will abide by it, and to
find security for the chogo, a sum stated to them, supposed to exceed the
utmost probable damages.

If the chogo do not exceed 30 dollars the bio or fee paid by each is
1 1/4 dollars.
If the chogo do not exceed 30 to 50 dollars the bio or fee paid by each
is 2 1/2 dollars.
If the chogo do not exceed 50 to 100 dollars the bio or fee paid by each
is 5 dollars.
If the chogo do not exceed 100 dollars and upwards the bio or fee paid by
each is 9 dollars.

All chiefs of dusuns, or independent tallangs, are entitled to a seat on
the bench upon trials.

If the pangeran sits at the bechar he is entitled to one half of all bio,
and of such fines, or shares of fines, as fall to the chiefs, the
pambarabs, and other proattins dividing the remainder.

If the pangeran be not present the pambarabs have one-third, and the
other proattins two-thirds of the foregoing. Though a single pambarab
only sit he is equally entitled to the above one-third. Of the other
proattins five are requisite to make a quorum.

No bechar, the chogo of which exceeds five dollars, to be held by the
proattins, except in the presence of the Company's Resident, or his
assistant.

If a person maliciously brings a false accusation and it is proved such,
he is liable to pay a sum equal to that which the defendant would have
incurred had his design succeeded; which sum is to be divided between the
defendant and the proattins, half and half.

The fine for bearing false witness is twenty dollars and a buffalo.

The punishment of perjury is left to the superior powers (orang alus).
Evidence here is not delivered on previous oath.

LAWS OF INHERITANCE.

