If a wife kills her husband she must suffer death.

If a wife by semando wounds her husband her relations must pay what they
would receive if he wounded her.

DEBTS AND CREDITS.

DEBTS.

On the death of a person in debt (unless he die an outlaw, or married
byambel-anak) his nearest relation becomes accountable to the creditors.

Of a person married by ambel-anak the family he married into is
answerable for debts contracted during the marriage: such as were
previous to it his relations must pay.

A father, or head of a family, has hitherto been in all cases liable to
the debts of his sons, or younger relations under his care; but to
prevent as much as possible his suffering by their extravagance it is now
resolved:

That if a young unmarried man (bujang) borrows money, or purchases goods
without the concurrence of his father, or of the head of his family, the
parent shall not be answerable for the debt. Should the son use his
father's name in borrowing it shall be at the lender's risk if the father
disavows it.

If any person gives credit to the debtor of another (publicly known as
such, either in the state of mengiring, when the whole of his labour
belongs to the creditor, or of be-blah, when it is divided) the latter
creditor can neither disturb the debtor for the sum nor oblige the former
to pay it. He must either pay the first debt (membulati, consolidate) or
let his claim lie over till the debtor finds means to discharge it.

Interest of money has hitherto been three fanams per dollar per month, or
one hundred and fifty per cent per annum. It is now reduced to one fanam,
or fifty per cent per annum, and no person is to receive more, under
penalty of fine, according to the circumstances of the case.

No more than double the principal can in any case be recovered at law. A
person lending money at interest, and letting it lie over beyond two
years, loses the surplus.

No pepper-planter to be taken as a debtor mengiring, under penalty of
forty dollars.

