PAWNS OR PLEDGES.

If any person holding a pawn or pledge such as wearing-apparel, household
effects, or krises, swords, or kujur (lances), shall pledge it for a
larger sum than he advanced for it, he shall be answerable to the owner
for the full value of it, on payment of the sum originally advanced. If
any person holding as a pledge man, woman, or child shall pledge them to
any other at an advanced sum, or without the knowledge of the owner, and
by these means the person pledged should be sold as a slave, he shall
make good to the owner the full value of such slave, and pay a fine of
twenty-eight dollars. If any person whatever holding man, woman, or child
as a pawn, either with janji lalu (term expired) or not, or with or
without the consent of the original owner, shall sell such person as a
slave without the knowledge of the Resident and Chiefs, he shall be fined
twenty-eight dollars.

BUFFALOES.

CATTLE.

All persons who keep buffaloes shall register at the godong
(factoryÂ­house) their tingas or mark; and, in case any dispute shall
arise about a marked buffalo, no person shall be allowed to plead a mark
that is not registered. If any wild (stray) buffalo or buffaloes,
unmarked, shall be taken in a kandang (staked inclosure) they shall be
adjudged the property of any who takes upon himself to swear to them;
and, if it should happen that two or more persons insist upon swearing to
the same buffaloes, they shall be divided among them equally. If no
individual will swear to the property the buffaloes are to be considered
as belonging to the kalippah or magistrate of the district where they
were caught. The person who takes any buffaloes in his kandang shall be
entitled to a gratuity of two dollars per head. If any buffaloes get into
a pepper-garden, either by day or night, the owner of the garden shall
have liberty to kill them, without being answerable to the owner of the
buffaloes: yet, if it shall appear on examination that the garden was not
properly fenced, and from this defect suffers damage, the owner shall be
liable to such fine as the Resident and Chiefs shall judge it proper to
impose.

