THEFT.

A person convicted of stealing money, wearing-apparel, household effects,
arms, or the like shall pay the owner double the value of the goods
stolen and be fined twenty-eight dollars. A person convicted of stealing
slaves shall pay to the owner at the rate of eighty dollars per head,
which is estimated to be double the value, and fined twentyÂ­eight
dollars. A person convicted of stealing betel, fowls, or coconuts shall
pay the owner double the value and be fined seven dollars, half of which
fine is to be received by the owner. If buffaloes are stolen they shall
be valued at twelve dollars per head: padi at four bakul (baskets) for
the dollar. If the stolen goods be found in the possession of a person
who is not able to account satisfactorily how he came by them he shall be
deemed the guilty person. If a person attempting to seize a man in the
act of thieving shall get hold of any part of his clothes which are
known, or his kris or siwah, this shall be deemed a sufficient token of
the theft. If two witnesses can be found who saw the stolen goods in
possession of a third person such person shall be deemed guilty unless he
can account satisfactorily how he became possessed of the goods. The oath
taken by such witnesses shall either include the descendants of their
father, or simply their own descendants, according to the discretion of
the chiefs who sit as judges. If several people sleep in one house, and
one of them leaves the house in the night without giving notice to any of
the rest, and a robbery be committed in the house that night, the person
so leaving the house shall be deemed guilty of the crime, provided the
owner of the stolen goods be willing to subject himself to an oath on the
occasion; and provided the other persons sleeping in the house shall
clear themselves by oath from being concerned in the theft: but if it
should happen that a person so convicted, being really innocent, should
in after time discover the person actually guilty, he shall have liberty
to bring his suit and recover. If several persons are sleeping in a house
and a robbery is committed that night, although none leave the house the
whole shall be obliged to make oath that they had no knowledge of, or
concern in, the theft, or on refusal shall be deemed guilty. In all cases
of theft where only a part of the stolen goods is found the owner must
ascertain upon oath the whole amount of his loss.

