Sometimes the difficulty of the case alone will induce the court to
insist on administering the oath to the relations of the parties,
although they are nowise concerned in the transaction. I recollect an
instance where three people were prosecuted for a theft. There was no
positive proof against them, yet the circumstances were so strong that it
appeared proper to put them to the test of one of these collateral oaths.
They were all willing, and two of them swore. When it came to the turn of
the third he could not persuade his relations to join with him, and he
was accordingly brought in for the whole amount of the goods stolen, and
penalties annexed.

These customs bear a strong resemblance to the rules of proof established
among our ancestors, the Anglo-Saxons, who were likewise obliged, in the
case of oaths taken for the purpose of exculpation, to produce a certain
number of compurgators; but, as these might be any indifferent persons,
who would take upon them to bear testimony to the truth of what their
neighbour swore, from an opinion of his veracity, there seems to be more
refinement and more knowledge of human nature in the Sumatran practice.
The idea of devoting to destruction, by a wilful perjury, not himself
only, but all, even the remotest branches, of a family which constitutes
his greatest pride, and of which the deceased heads are regarded with the
veneration that was paid to the dii lares of the ancients, has doubtless
restrained many a man from taking a false oath, who without much
compunction would suffer thirty or a hundred compurgators of the former
description to take their chance of that fate. Their strongest prejudices
are here converted to the most beneficial purposes.

CEREMONY OF TAKING AN OATH.

The place of greatest solemnity for administering an oath is the krammat
or burying-ground of their ancestors, and several superstitious
ceremonies are observed on the occasion. The people near the sea-coast,
in general, by long intercourse with the Malays, have an idea of the
Koran, and usually employ this in swearing, which the priests do not fail
to make them pay for; but the inland people keep, laid up in their
houses, certain old reliques, called in the Rejang language pesakko, and
in Malayan, sactian, which they produce when an oath is to be taken. The
person who has lost his cause, and with whom it commonly rests to bind
his adversary by an oath, often desires two or three days' time to get
ready these his swearing apparatus, called on such occasions sumpahan, of
which some are looked upon as more sacred and of greater efficacy than
others. They consist of an old rusty kris, a broken gun barrel, or any
ancient trumpery, to which chance or caprice has annexed an idea of
extraordinary virtue. These they generally dip in water, which the person
who swears drinks off, after having pronounced the form of words before
mentioned.* The pangeran of Sungei-lamo has by him certain copper bullets
which had been steeped in water drunk by the SungeiÂ­etam chiefs, when
they bound themselves never to molest his districts: which they have only
done since as often as they could venture it with safety, from the
relaxation of our government. But these were political oaths. The most
ordinary sumpahan is a kris, and on the blade of this they sometimes drop
lime-juice, which occasions a stain on the lips of the person performing
the ceremony; a circumstance that may not improbably be supposed to make
an impression on a weak and guilty mind. Such would fancy that the
external stain conveyed to the beholders an image of the internal. At
Manna the sumpahan most respected is a gun barrel. When produced to be
sworn on it is carried to the spot in state, under an umbrella, and
wrapped in silk. This parade has an advantageous effect by influencing
the mind of the party with a high idea of the importance and solemnity of
the business. In England the familiarity of the object and the summary
method of administering oaths are well known to diminish their weight,
and to render them too often nugatory. They sometimes swear by the earth,
laying their hands upon it and wishing that it may never produce aught
for their nourishment if they speak falsely. In all these ceremonies they
burn on the spot a little gum benzoin--Et acerra thuris plena, positusque
carbo in cespite vivo.

