The different species of horrid and disgustful crimes, which are
emphatically denominated, against nature, are unknown on Sumatra; nor
have any of their languages terms to express such ideas.

INCEST.

Incest, or the intermarriage of persons within a certain degree of
consanguinity, which is, perhaps (at least after the first degree),
rather an offence against the institutions of human prudence than a
natural crime, is forbidden by their customs and punishable by fine: yet
the guilt is often expiated by a ceremony, and the marriages in many
instances confirmed.

ADULTERY.

Adultery is punishable by fine; but the crime is rare, and suits on the
subject still less frequent. The husband, it is probable, either conceals
his shame or revenges it with his own hand.

DIVORCES.

If a man would divorce a wife he has married by jujur he may claim back
what he has paid in part, less twenty-five dollars, the adat charo, for
the damage he has done her; but if he has paid the jujur in full the
relations may choose whether they will receive her or not; if not he may
sell her. If a man has paid part of a jujur but cannot raise the
remainder, though repeatedly dunned for it, the parents of the girl may
obtain a divorce; but if it is not with the husband's concurrence they
lose the advantage of the charo, and must refund all they have received.
A woman married by jujur must bring with her effects to the amount of ten
dollars, or, if not, it is deducted from the sum; if she brings more the
husband is accountable for the difference. The original ceremony of
divorce consists in cutting a rattanÂ­cane in two, in presence of the
parties, their relations, and the chiefs of the country.

SECOND MODE OF MARRIAGE.

In the mode of marriage by ambel anak the father of a virgin makes choice
of some young man for her husband, generally from an inferior family,
which renounces all further right to, or interest in, him, and he is
taken into the house of his father-in-law, who kills a buffalo on the
occasion, and receives twenty dollars from the son's relations. After
this the buruk baik'nia (the good and bad of him) is vested in the wife's
family. If he murders or robs they pay the bangun, or the fine. If he is
murdered they receive the bangun. They are liable to any debts he may
contract after marriage; those prior to it remaining with his parents. He
lives in the family in a state between that of a son and a debtor. He
partakes as a son of what the house affords, but has no property in
himself. His rice plantation, the produce of his pepper-garden, with
everything that he can gain or earn, belong to the family. He is liable
to be divorced at their pleasure, and, though he has children, must leave
all, and return naked as he came. The family sometimes indulge him with
leave to remove to a house of his own, and take his wife with him; but
he, his children, and effects are still their property. If he has not
daughters by the marriage he may redeem himself and wife by paying her
jujur; but if there are daughters before they become emancipated the
difficulty is enhanced, because the family are likewise entitled to their
value. It is common however when they are upon good terms to release him
on the payment of one jujur, or at most with the addition of an adat of
fifty dollars. With this addition he may insist upon a release whilst his
daughters are not marriageable. If the family have paid any debts for him
he must also make them good. Should he contract more than they approve
of, and they fear his adding to them, they procure a divorce, and send
him back to his parents; but must pay his debts to that time. If he is a
notorious spendthrift they outlaw him by means of a writ presented to the
magistrate. These are inscribed on slips of bamboo with a sharp
instrument, and I have several of them in my possession. They must banish
him from home, and if they receive him again, or assist him with the
smallest sum, they are liable to all his debts. On the prodigal son's
return, and assurance of amendment, this writ may be redeemed on payment
of five dollars to the proattins, and satisfying the creditors. This kind
of marriage is productive of much confusion, for till the time it takes
place the young man belongs to one dusun and family, and afterwards to
another, and as they have no records to refer to there is great
uncertainty in settling the time when debts were contracted, and the
like. Sometimes the redemption of the family and their return to the
former dusun take place in the second or third generation; and in many
cases it is doubtful whether they ever took place or not; the two parties
contradicting each other, and perhaps no evidence to refer to. Hence
arise various and intricate bechars.

