CONSUMMATION OF MARRIAGES.

If a wedding is the occasion of the bimbang the couple are married,
perhaps, the second or third day; but it may be two or three more ere the
husband can get possession of his bride; the old matrons making it a rule
to prevent him, as long as possible, and the bride herself holding it a
point of honour to defend to extremity that jewel which she would yet be
disappointed in preserving.*

(*Footnote. It is recorded that the jealousy between the English and
Dutch at Bantam arose from a preference shown to the former by the king
at a festival which he gave upon obtaining a victory of this nature,
which his bride had long disputed with him. For a description of a
Malayan wedding, with an excellent plate representing the conclusion of
the ceremony and the sleeping apartment, I beg to refer the reader to
Captain Forrest's Voyage to New Guinea page 286 quarto edition. The
bed-place is described at page 232 and the processional car (perÂ­arakan)
at page 241. His whole account of the domestic manners of the people of
Mindanao, at the court of which he lived on terms of familiarity, will be
found highly amusing.)

They sit up in state at night on raised cushions, in their best clothes
and trinkets. They are sometimes loaded on the occasion with all the
finery of their relations, or even the whole dusun, and carefully eased
of it when the ceremony is over. But this is not the case with the
children of persons of rank. I remember being present at the marriage of
a young woman, whose beauty would not have disgraced any country, with a
son of Raddin, prince of Madura, to whom the English gave protection from
the power of the Dutch after his father had fallen a sacrifice.* She was
decked in unborrowed plumes. Her dress was eminently calculated to do
justice to a fine person; her hair, in which consists their chief pride,
was disposed with extreme grace; and an uncommon elegance and taste were
displayed in the workmanship and adjustment of her ornaments. It must be
confessed however that this taste is by no means general, especially
amongst the country people. Simplicity, so essential to the idea, is the
characteristic of a rude and quite uncivilized people, and is again
adopted by men in their highest state of refinement. The Sumatrans stand
removed from both these extremes. Rich and splendid articles of dress and
furniture, though not often procured, are the objects of their vanity and
ambition.

