COCK-FIGHTING.

To cock-fighting they are still more passionately addicted, and it is
indulged to them under certain regulations. Where they are perfectly
independent their propensity to it is so great that it resembles rather a
serious occupation than a sport. You seldom meet a man travelling in the
country without a cock under his arm, and sometimes fifty persons in a
company when there is a bimbang in one of the neighbouring villages. A
country-man coming down, on any occasion, to the bazaar or settlement at
the mouth of the river, if he boasts the least degree of spirit must not
be unprovided with this token of it. They often game high at their
meetings; particularly when a superstitious faith in the invincibility of
their bird has been strengthened by past success. A hundred Spanish
dollars is no very uncommon risk, and instances have occurred of a
father's staking his children or wife, and a son his mother or sisters,
on the issue of a battle, when a run of ill luck has stripped them of
property and rendered them desperate. Quarrels, attended with dreadful
consequences, have often arisen on these occasions.

RULES OF COCKING.

By their customs there are four umpires appointed to determine on all
disputed points in the course of the battles; and from their decision
there lies no appeal except the Gothic appeal to the sword. A person who
loses and has not the ability to pay is immediately proscribed, departs
with disgrace, and is never again suffered to appear at the galanÂ­gang.
This cannot with propriety be translated a cockpit, as it is generally a
spot on the level ground, or a stage erected, and covered in. It is
inclosed with a railing which keeps off the spectators; none but the
handlers and heelers being admitted withinside. A man who has a high
opinion of and regard for his cock will not fight him under a certain
number of dollars, which he places in order on the floor: his poorer
adversary is perhaps unable to deposit above one half: the standers-by
make up the sum, and receive their dividends in proportion if successful.
A father at his deathbed has been known to desire his son to take the
first opportunity of matching a certain cock for a sum equal to his whole
property, under a blind conviction of its being betuah, or invulnerable.

