QUAIL-FIGHTING.

In some places they match quails, in the manner of cocks. These fight
with great inveteracy, and endeavour to seize each other by the tongue.
The Achinese bring also into combat the dial-bird (murei) which resembles
a small magpie, but has an agreeable though imperfect note. They
sometimes engage one another on the wing, and drop to the ground in the
struggle.

FENCING.

They have other diversions of a more innocent nature. Matches of fencing,
or a species of tournament, are exhibited on particular days; as at the
breaking up of their annual fast, or month of ramadan, called there the
puasa. On these occasions they practise strange attitudes, with violent
contortions of the body, and often work themselves up to a degree of
frenzy, when the old men step in and carry them off. These exercises in
some circumstances resemble the idea which the ancients have given us of
the pyrrhic or war dance; the combatants moving at a distance from each
other in cadence, and making many turns and springs unnecessary in the
representation of a real combat. This entertainment is more common among
the Malays than in the country. The chief weapons of offence used by
these people are the kujur or lance and the kris. This last is properly
Malayan, but in all parts of the island they have a weapon equivalent,
though in general less curious in its structure, wanting that waving in
the blade for which the kris is remarkable, and approaching nearer to
daggers or knives.

Among their exercises we never observe jumping or running. They smile at
the Europeans, who in their excursions take so many unnecessary leaps.
The custom of going barefoot may be a principal impediment to this
practice in a country overrun with thorny shrubs, and where no fences
occur to render it a matter of expediency.

DIVERSION OF TOSSING A BALL.

They have a diversion similar to that described by Homer as practised
among the Phaeacians, which consists in tossing an elastic wicker ball or
round basket of split rattans into the air, and from one player to
another, in a peculiar manner. This game is called by the Malays sipak
raga, or, in the dialect of Bencoolen, chipak rago, and is played by a
large party standing in an extended circle, who endeavour to keep up the
ball by striking it either perpendicularly, in order to receive it again,
or obliquely to some other person of the company, with the foot or the
hand, the heel or the toe, the knee, the shoulder, the head, or with any
other part of the body; the merit appearing to consist in producing the
effect in the least obvious or most whimsical manner; and in this sport
many of them attain an extraordinary degree of expertness. Among the
plates of Lord Macartney's Embassy will be found the representation of a
similar game, as practised by the natives of CochinÂ­china.

