HESITATE TO PRONOUNCE THEIR OWN NAME.

A Sumatran ever scrupulously abstains from pronouncing his own name; not
as I understand from any motive of superstition, but merely as a
punctilio in manners. It occasions him infinite embarrassment when a
stranger, unacquainted with their customs, requires it of him. As soon as
he recovers from his confusion he solicits the interposition of his
neighbour.

ADDRESS IN THE THIRD PERSON.

He is never addressed, except in the case of a superior dictating to his
dependant, in the second person, but always in the third; using his name
or title instead of the pronoun; and when these are unknown a general
title of respect is substituted, and they say, for instance, apa orang
kaya punia suka, what is his honour's pleasure for what is your, or your
honour's pleasure? When criminals or other ignominious persons are spoken
to use is made of the pronoun personal kau (a contraction of angkau)
particularly expressive of contempt. The idea of disrespect annexed to
the use of the second person in discourse, though difficult to be
accounted for, seems pretty general in the world. The Europeans, to avoid
the supposed indecorum, exchange the singular number for the plural; but
I think with less propriety of effect than the Asiatic mode; if to take
off from the bluntness of address be the object aimed at.

CIRCUMCISION.

The boys are circumcised, where Mahometanism prevails, between the sixth
and tenth year. The ceremony is called krat kulop and buang or lepas malu
(casting away their shame), and a bimbang is usually given on the
occasion; as well as at the ceremony of boring the ears and filing the
teeth of their daughters (before described), which takes place at about
the age of ten or twelve; and until this is performed they cannot with
propriety be married.

FUNERALS.

At their funerals the corpse is carried to the place of interment on a
broad plank, which is kept for the public service of the dusun, and lasts
for many generations. It is constantly rubbed with lime, either to
preserve it from decay or to keep it pure. No coffin is made use of; the
body being simply wrapped in white cloth, particularly of the sort called
hummums. In forming the grave (kubur), after digging to a convenient
depth they make a cavity in the side, at bottom, of sufficient dimensions
to contain the body, which is there deposited on its right side. By this
mode the earth literally lies light upon it; and the cavity, after
strewing flowers in it, they stop up by two boards fastened angularly to
each other, so that the one is on the top of the corpse, whilst the other
defends it on the open side, the edge resting on the bottom of the grave.
The outer excavation is then filled up with earth, and little white flags
or streamers are stuck in order around. They likewise plant a shrub,
bearing a white flower, called kumbangÂ­kamboja (Plumeria obtusa), and in
some places wild marjoram. The women who attend the funeral make a
hideous noise, not much unlike the Irish howl. On the third and seventh
day the relations perform a ceremony at the grave, and at the end of
twelve months that of tegga batu, or setting up a few long elliptical
stones at the head and foot, which, being scarce in some parts of the
country, bear a considerable price. On this occasion they kill and feast
on a buffalo, and leave the head to decay on the spot as a token of the
honour they have done to the deceased, in eating to his memory.* The
ancient burying-places are called krammat, and are supposed to have been
those of the holy men by whom their ancestors were converted to the
faith. They are held in extraordinary reverence, and the least
disturbance or violation of the ground, though all traces of the graves
be obliterated, is regarded as an unpardonable sacrilege.

