Their notions of the creation of the world, and formation of mankind, had
something ridiculously extravagant. They believed that the world at first
consisted only of sky and water, and between these two, a glede; which,
weary with flying about, and finding no place to rest, set the water at
variance with the sky, which, in order to keep it in bounds, and that it
should not get uppermost, loaded the water with a number of islands, in
which the glede might settle and leave them at peace. Mankind, they said,
sprang out of a large cane with two joints, that, floating about in the
water, was at length thrown by the waves against the feet of the glede,
as it stood on shore, which opened it with its bill, and the man came out
of one joint, and the woman out of the other. These were soon after
married by consent of their God, Batkala Meycapal, which caused the first
trembling of the earth; and from thence are descended the different
nations of the world.")


CHAPTER 17.

ACCOUNT OF THE INLAND COUNTRY OF KORINCHI.
EXPEDITION TO THE SERAMPEI AND SUNGEI-TENANG COUNTRIES.

COUNTRY OF KORINCHI.

At the back of the range of high mountains by which the countries of
Indrapura and Anak-sungei are bounded lies the district or valley of
Korinchi, which, from its secluded situation, has hitherto been little
known to Europeans. In the year 1800 Mr. Charles Campbell, whose name I
have had frequent occasion to mention, was led to visit this spot, in the
laudable pursuit of objects for the improvement of natural history, and
from his correspondence I shall extract such parts as I have reason to
hope will be gratifying to the reader.

MR. CAMPBELL'S JOURNEY.

Says this indefatigable traveller:

The country of Korinchi first occupied my attention. From the sea-coast
at Moco-moco to the foot of the mountains cost us three days' weary
journey, and although our path was devious I cannot estimate the distance
at less than thirty miles, for it was late on the fourth day when we
began to ascend. Your conjecture that the ridge is broader betwixt the
plains of Anak-sungei and valley of Korinchi than that which we see from
Bencoolen is just. Our route in general lay north-east until we attained
the summit of the first high range, from which elevated situation,
through an opening in the wood, the Pagi or Nassau Islands were clearly
visible. During the next day our course along the ridge of hills was a
little to the northward of northÂ­west, and for the two following days
almost due north, through as noble a forest as was ever penetrated by
man. On the evening of the last we descended by a steep and seemingly
short path from the summit of the second range (for there are obviously
two) into the Korinchi country.

