SITUATION OF LAKE.

This descent did not occupy us more than twenty minutes, so that the
valley must lie at a great height above the level of the sea; but it was
yet a few days march to the inhabited and cultivated land on the border
of the great lake, which I conjecture to be situated directly behind
Indrapura, or north-east from the mouth of that river. There are two
lakes, but one of them is inconsiderable. I sailed for some time on the
former, which may be nearly as broad as the strait between Bencoolen and
Rat Island. My companions estimated it at seven miles; but the eye is
liable to much deception, and, having seen nothing for many days but
rivulets, the grandeur of the sheet of water, when it first burst upon
our sight, perhaps induced us to form too high a notion of its extent.
Its banks were studded with villages; it abounds with fish, particularly
the summah, a species of cyprinus; its waters are clear and beautiful
from the reflection of the black and shining sand which covers the bottom
in many places to the depth of eight or ten inches.

INHABITANTS.

The inhabitants are below the common stature of the Malays, with harder
visages and higher cheekbones, well knit in their limbs, and active; not
deficient in hospitality, but jealous of strangers. The women, excepting
a few of the daughters of the chiefs, were in general illÂ­favoured, and
even savage in their aspect. At the village of In-juan on the borders of
the lake I saw some of them with rings of copper and shells among their
hair; they wore destars round their heads like the men, and almost all of
them had siwars or small daggers at their sides. They were not shut up or
concealed from us, but mixed with our party, on the contrary, with much
frankness.

BUILDINGS.

The people dwell in hordes, many families being crowded together in one
long building. That in which I lived gave shelter to twenty-five
families. The front was one long undivided verandah, where the unmarried
men slept; the back part was partitioned into small cabins, each of which
had a round hole with a door to fit it, and through this the female
inmates crept backwards and forwards in the most awkward manner and
ridiculous posture. This house was in length two hundred and thirty feet,
and elevated from the ground. Those belonging to the chiefs were smaller,
well constructed of timber and plank, and covered with shingles or thin
plates of board bound on with rattans, about the size and having much the
appearance of our slates.

