ASCEND A HIGH MOUNTAIN.

28th. Ascended Bukit Pandang in an east-north-east direction. Reached a
small spring of water called Pondo Kubang, the only one to be met with
till the hill is descended. About two miles from the top, and from thence
all the way up, the trees and ground were covered very thick with moss;
the trees much stunted, and altogether the appearance was barren and
gloomy; to us particularly so, for we could find little or nothing
wherewith to build our huts, nor procure a bit of dry wood to light a
fire. In order to make one for dressing the victuals, Lieutenant Dare was
compelled to break up one of his boxes, otherwise he and Mr. Alexander,
the surgeon, must have eaten them raw. It rained hard all night, and the
coolies and most of the party were obliged to lie
down on the wet ground in the midst of it.

MEN DIE FROM SEVERITY OF THE WEATHER.

It was exceedingly cold to our feelings; in the evening the thermometer
was down to 50 degrees, and in the night to 45 degrees. In consequence of
the cold, inclemency, and fatigue to which the coolies were exposed,
seven of them died that night. The lieutenant and surgeon made themselves
a kind of shelter with four tarpaulins that were fortunately provided to
cover the medicine chest and surgical instruments, but the place was so
small that it scarcely held them both. In the evening when the former was
sitting on his campÂ­stool, whilst the people were putting up the
tarpaulins, a very small bird, perfectly black, came hopping about the
stool, picking up the worms from the moss. It was so tame and fearless
that it frequently perched itself on his foot and on different parts of
the stool; which shows that these parts of the country must be very
little frequented by human beings. 29th. Descended Bukit Pandang. Another
coolie died this morning. We are obliged to fling away shells. After
walking some time many of the people recovered, as it was principally
from cold and damps they suffered. Crossed a stream called Inum where we
saw several huts. In half an hour more arrived at the banks of the
greater Ayer Dikit River, which is here shallow, rapid, and about eighty
yards broad. We marched westerly along its banks, and reached a hut
opposite to a spot called Rantau Kramas, where we remained for the night,
being prevented from crossing by a flood. 30th. Cut down a large tree and
threw it across the river; it reached about halfway over. With this and
the assistance of rattans tied to the opposite side we effected our
passage and arrived at Rantau Kramas. Sent off people to Ranna Alli, one
of the Serampei villages, about a day's march from hence, for provisions.
Thermometer 59 degrees.

