PECULIAR REGULATION.

They have a custom here of never allowing any animal to be killed in any
part of the village but the balei or town hall, unless the person wishing
to do otherwise consents to pay a fine of one fathom of cotton cloth to
the priest for his permission. The old dupati told us there had been
formerly a great deal of sickness and bloodshed in the village, and it
had been predicted that, unless this custom were complied with, the like
would happen again. We paid the fine, had the prayers of the priest, and
killed our goats where and as we pleased. 16th. Marched in a
south-westerly direction, and, after passing many steep hills, reached
the lesser Ayer Dikit River, which we crossed, and built our huts on its
western bank. 17th. Marched in a west, and afterwards a south, direction;
the roads, in consequence of the rain ceasing today, tolerably dry and
good, but over high hills. Arrived at Ayer Prikan, and encamped on its
western bank; its course north and south over a rough, stony bed; very
rapid, and about thirty yards across, at the foot of Bukit Lintang. Saw
today abundance of cassiaÂ­trees. 18th. Proceeded to ascend Bukit Lintang,
which in the first part was excessively steep and fatiguing; our route
north and north-west when descending, south-south-west. Arrived at one of
the sources of the Sungei-ipu. Descending still farther we reached a
small spring where we built our huts. 19th. On our march this day we were
gratified by the receipt of letters from our friends at Bencoolen, by the
way of Moco-moco, from whence the Resident, Mr. Russell, sent us a supply
of wine and other refreshments, which we had not tasted for fourteen
days. Our course lay along the banks of the Sungei-ipu, and we arrived at
huts prepared for us by Mr. Russell. 20th. At one time our guide lost the
proper path by mistaking for it the track of a rhinoceros (which are in
great numbers in these parts), and we got into a place where we were
teased with myriads of leeches. Our road, excepting two or three small
hills, was level and good. Reached the confluence of the Ipu and Si
Luggan Rivers, the latter of which rises in the Korinchi country. Passed
Gunong Payong, the last hill, as we approached Moco-moco, near to which
had been a village formerly burnt and the inhabitants made slaves by Pa
Muncha and the then tuanku mudo (son of the sultan). 21st. Arrived at
talang Rantau Riang, the first Moco-moco or Anak-Sungei village, where we
found provisions dressed for us. At dusun Si Ballowe, to which our road
lay south-easterly, through pepper and rice plantations, sampans were in
readiness to convey us down the river. This place is remarkable for an
arau tree (casuarina), the only one met with at such a distance from the
sea. The country is here level in comparison with what we have passed
through, and the soil rather sandy, with a mixture of red clay. 22nd. The
course of the river is south-west and west with many windings. Arrived at
Moco-moco.

