About the year 1340 the king of Siam, being jealous of the growing power
of Malaka, invaded the country, and in a second expedition laid siege to
the capital; but his armies were defeated by the general of Modafar,
named Sri Nara Dirija. After these events Modafar reigned some years with
much reputation, and died in 1374. His son, originally named Sultan
Abdul, took the title of Sultan Mansur Shah upon his accession. At the
time that the king of Maja-pahit drove the Malays from Singapura, as
above related, he likewise subdued the country of Indragiri in Sumatra;
but upon the occasion of Mansur Shah's marriage (about the year 1380)
with the daughter of the then reigning king, a princess of great
celebrity, named Radin Gala Chendra Kiran, it was assigned to him as her
portion, and has since continued (according to Valentyn) under the
dominion of the princes of Malaka. Mansur appears to have been engaged in
continual wars, and to have obtained successes against Pahang, Pase, and
Makasar. His reign extended to the almost incredible period of
seventy-three years, being succeeded in 1447 by his son Sultan
Ala-wa-eddin. During his reign of thirty years nothing particular is
recorded; but there is reason to believe that his country during some
part of that time was under the power of the Siamese. Sultan Mahmud Shah,
who succeeded him, was the twelfth Malayan king, and the seventh and last
king of Malaka.

JOHOR FOUNDED.

In 1509 he repelled the aggression of the king of Siam; but in 1511 was
conquered by the Portuguese under Alfonso d'Alboquerque, and forced, with
the principal inhabitants, to fly to the neighbourhood of the first
Malayan establishment at the extremity of the peninsula, where he founded
the city of Johor, which still subsists, but has never attained to any
considerable importance, owing as it may be presumed to the European
influence that has ever since, under the Portuguese, Hollanders, and
English, predominated in that quarter.*

