SHIP-TIMBER.

He speaks in favourable terms of the facility with which ship-timber of
any dimensions or shape may be procured and loaded. Respecting the size
or population of the town no information is given.

GOVERNMENT.

The government of it was (in October 1808) in the hands of the Tuanku
Pangeran, brother to the Raja, who in consequence of some civil
disturbance had withdrawn to the entrance of the river. His name is not
mentioned, but from the Transactions of the Batavian Society we learn
that the prince who reigned about the year 1780 was Raja Ismael, "one of
the greatest pirates in those seas." The maritime power of the kingdom of
Siak has always been considerable, and in the history of the Malayan
states we repeatedly read of expeditions fitted out from thence making
attacks upon Johor, Malacca, and various other places on the two coasts
of the peninsula. Most of the neighbouring states (or rivers) on the
eastern coast of Sumatra, from Langat to Jambi, are said to have been
brought in modern times under its subjection.

TRADE.

The trade is chiefly carried on by Kling vessels, as they are called,
from the coast of Coromandel, which supply cargoes of piece-goods, and
also raw silk, opium, and other articles, which they provide at Pinang or
Malacca; in return for which they receive gold, wax, sago, salted fish,
and fish-roes, elephants' teeth, gambir, camphor, rattans, and other
canes. According to the information of the natives the river is navigable
for sloops to a place called Panti Chermin, being eight days' sail with
the assistance of the tide, and within half a day's journey by land of
another named Patapahan, which boats also, of ten to twenty tons, reach
in two days. This is a great mart of trade with the Menangkabau country,
whither its merchants resort with their gold. Pakan-bharu, the limit of
Mr. Lynch's voyage, is much lower down, and the aboveÂ­mentioned places
are consequently not noticed by him. The Dutch Company procured annually
from Siak, for the use of Batavia, several rafts of spars for masts, and
if the plan of building ships at Pinang should be encouraged large
supplies of frame-timber for the purpose may be obtained from this river,
provided a sense of interest shall be found sufficiently strong to
correct or restrain the habits of treachery and desperate enterprise for
which these people have in all ages been notorious.

