LOW COUNTRY.

The lower parts of the country of Palembang towards the sea-coast are
described as being flat marshy land, and with the exception of some few
tracts entirely unfit for the purposes of cultivation. It is generally
understood to have been all covered by the sea in former ages, not only
from its being observed that the strand yearly gains an accession, but
also that, upon digging the earth at some distance inland, sea-shells,
and even pieces of boat-timber, are discovered.

INTERIOR COUNTRY. ITS TRADE.

The interior or upland districts on the contrary are very productive, and
there the pepper is cultivated, which the king's agent (for trade in
these parts is usually monopolized by the sovereign power) purchases at a
cheap rate. In return he supplies the country people with opium, salt,
and piece-goods, forming the cargoes of large boats (some of them
sixty-six feet in length and seven in breadth, from a single tree) which
are towed against the stream. The goods intended for Passummah are
conveyed to a place called Muara Mulang, which is performed in fourteen
days, and from thence by land to the borders of that country is only one
day's journey. This being situated beyond the district where the pepper
flourishes their returns are chiefly made in pulas twine, raw silk in its
roughest state, and elephants' teeth. From Musi they send likewise
sulphur, alum, arsenic, and tobacco. Dragons-blood and gambir are also
the produce of the country.

ITS GOVERNMENT.

These interior parts are divided into provinces, each of which is
assigned as a fief or government to one of the royal family or of the
nobles, who commit the management to deputies and give themselves little
concern about the treatment of their subjects. The pangerans, who are the
descendants of the ancient princes of the country, experience much
oppression, and when compelled to make their appearance at court are
denied every mark of ceremonious distinction.

SETTLERS FROM JAVA.

