ITS DIVISIONS.

The Batta territory is divided (according to the information obtained by
the English Residents) into the following principal districts; Ankola,
Padambola, Mandiling, Toba, Selindong, and Singkel, of which the first
has five, the third three, and the fourth five subordinate tribes.
According to the Dutch account published in the Transactions of the
Batavian Society, which is very circumstantial, it is divided into three
small kingdoms. One of these named Simamora is situated far inland and
contains a number of villages, and among others those named Batong, Ria,
Allas, Batadera, Kapkap (where the district producing benzoin commences),
Batahol, Kotta-tinggi (the place of the king's residence), with two
places lying on the eastern coast called Suitara-male and Jambu-ayer.
This kingdom is said to yield much fine gold from the mines of Batong and
Sunayang. Bata-salindong also contains many districts, in some of which
benzoin, and in others fine gold, is collected. The residence of the king
is at Salindong. Bata-gopit lies at the foot of a volcano-mountain of
that name, from whence, at the time of an eruption, the natives procure
sulphur, to be afterwards employed in the manufacture of gunpowder. The
little kingdom of Butar lies northÂ­eastward of the preceding and reaches
to the eastern coast, where are the places named Pulo Serony and Batu
Bara; the latter enjoying a considerable trade; also Longtong and
Sirigar, at the mouth of a great river named Assahan. Butar yields
neither camphor, benzoin, nor gold, and the inhabitants support
themselves by cultivation. The residence of the king is at a town of the
same name.

ANCIENT BUILDING.

High up on the river of Batu Bara, which empties itself into the straits
of Malacca, is found a large brick building, concerning the erection of
which no tradition is preserved amongst the people. It is described as a
square, or several squares, and at one corner is an extremely high
pillar, supposed by them to have been designed for carrying a flag.
Images or reliefs of human figures are carved in the walls, which they
conceive to be Chinese (perhaps Hindu) idols. The bricks, of which some
were brought to Tappanuli, are of a smaller size than those used by the
English.

