ARMS.

Their arms are matchlock guns, with which they are expert marksmen,
bamboo lances or spears with long iron heads, and a side-weapon called
jono, which resembles and is worn as a sword rather than a kris. The
cartridge-boxes are provided with a number of little wooden cases, each
containing a charge for the piece. In these are carried likewise the
match, and the smaller ranjaus, the longer being in a joint of bamboo,
slung like a quiver over the shoulder. They have machines curiously
carved and formed like the beak of a large bird for holding bullets, and
others of peculiar construction for a reserve of powder. These hang in
front. On the right side hang the flint and steel, and also the
tobacco-pipe. Their guns, the locks of which {for holding the match) are
of copper, they are supplied with by traders from Menangkabau; the swords
are of their own workmanship, and they also manufacture their own
gunpowder, extracting the saltpetre, as it is said, from the soil taken
from under houses that have been long inhabited (which in consequence of
an uncleanly practice is strongly impregnated with animal salts),
together with that collected in places where goats are kept. Through this
earth water is filtered, and being afterwards suffered to evaporate the
saltpetre is found at the bottom of the vessel. Their proper standard in
war is a horse's head, from whence flows a long mane or tail; beside
which they have colours of red or white cloth. For drums they use gongs,
and in action set up a kind of warÂ­whoop.

WARFARE.

The spirit of war is excited among these people by small provocation, and
their resolutions for carrying it into effect are soon taken. Their life
appears in fact to be a perpetual state of hostility, and they are always
prepared for attack and defence. When they proceed to put their designs
into execution the first act of defiance is firing, without ball, into
the kampong of their enemies. Three days are then allowed for the party
fired upon to propose terms of accommodation, and if this is not done, or
the terms are such as cannot be agreed to, war is then fully declared.
This ceremony of firing with powder only is styled carrying smoke to the
adversary. During the course of their wars, which sometimes last for two
or three years, they seldom meet openly in the field or attempt to decide
their contest by a general engagement, as the mutual loss of a dozen men
might go near to ruin both parties, nor do they ever engage hand to hand,
but keep at a pretty safe distance, seldom nearer than random-shot,
excepting in case of sudden surprise. They march in single files, and
usually fire kneeling. It is not often that they venture a direct attack
upon each other's works, but watch opportunities of picking off
stragglers passing through the woods. A party of three or four will
conceal themselves near the footways, and if they see any of their foes
they fire and run away immediately; planting ranjaus after them to
prevent pursuit. On these occasions a man will subsist upon a potato a
day, in which they have much the advantage of the Malays (against whom
they are often engaged in warfare), who require to be better fed.

