DOUBTS OBVIATED.

I have found that some persons (and among them my friend, the late Mr.
Alexander Dalrymple) have entertained doubts of the reality of the fact
that human flesh is anywhere eaten by mankind as a national practice, and
considered the proofs hitherto adduced as insufficient to establish a
point of so much moment in the history of the species. It is objected to
me that I never was an eyewitness of a Batta feast of this nature, and
that my authority for it is considerably weakened by coming through a
second, or perhaps a third hand. I am sensible of the weight of this
reasoning, and am not anxious to force any man's belief, much less to
deceive him by pretences to the highest degree of certainty, when my
relation can only lay claim to the next degree; but I must at the same
time observe that, according to my apprehension, the refusing assent to
fair, circumstantial evidence, because it clashes with a systematic
opinion, is equally injurious to the cause of truth with asserting that
as positive which is only doubtful. My conviction of the truth of what I
have not personally seen (and we must all be convinced of facts to which
neither ourselves nor those with whom we are immediately connected could
ever have been witnesses) has arisen from the following circumstances,
some of less, and some of greater authority. It is in the first place a
matter of general and uncontroverted notoriety throughout the island, and
I have conversed with many natives of the Batta country (some of them in
my own service), who acknowledged the practice, and became ashamed of it
after residing amongst more humanized people. It has been my chance to
have had no fewer than three brothers and brothers-in-law, beside several
intimate friends (of whom some are now in England), chiefs of our
settlements of Natal and Tappanuli, of whose information I availed
myself, and all their accounts I have found to agree in every material
point. The testimony of Mr. Charles Miller, whose name, as well as that
of his father, is advantageously known to the literary world, should
alone be sufficient for my purpose. In addition to what he has related in
his journal he has told me that at one village where he halted the
suspended head of a man, whose body had been eaten a few days before, was
extremely offensive; and that in conversation with some people of the
Ankola district, speaking of their neighbours and occasional enemies of
the PaÂ­dambola district, they described them as an unprincipled race,
saying, "We, indeed, eat men as a punishment for their crimes and
injuries to us; but they waylay and seize travellers in order to
ber-bantei or cut them up like cattle." It is here obviously the
admission and not the scandal that should have weight. When Mr. Giles
Holloway was leaving Tappanuli and settling his accounts with the natives
he expostulated with a Batta man who had been dilatory in his payment. "I
would," says the man, "have been here sooner, but my pangulu (superior
officer) was detected in familiarity with my wife. He was condemned, and
I stayed to eat share of him; the ceremony took us up three days, and it
was only last night that we finished him." Mr. Miller was present at this
conversation, and the man spoke with perfect seriousness. A native of the
island of Nias, who had stabbed a Batta man in a fit of frenzy at
Batang-tara river, near Tappanuli bay, and endeavoured to make his
escape, was, upon the alarm being given, seized at six in the morning,
and before eleven, without any judicial process, was tied to a stake, cut
in pieces with the utmost eagerness while yet alive, and eaten upon the
spot, partly broiled, but mostly raw. His head was buried under that of
the man whom he had murdered. This happened in December 1780, when Mr.
William Smith had charge of the settlement. A raja was fined by Mr.
Bradley for having caused a prisoner to be eaten at a place too close to
the Company's settlement, and it should have been remarked that these
feasts are never suffered to take place withinside their own kampongs.
Mr. Alexander Hall made a charge in his public accounts of a sum paid to
a raja as an inducement to him to spare a man whom he had seen preparing
for a victim: and it is in fact this commendable discouragement of the
practice by our government that occasions its being so rare a sight to
Europeans, in a country where there are no travellers from curiosity, and
where the servants of the Company, having appearances to maintain, cannot
by their presence as idle spectators give a sanction to proceedings which
it is their duty to discourage, although their influence is not
sufficient to prevent them.

