COIN.

They have a small thin adulterated gold coin, rudely stamped with Arabic
characters, called mas or massiah. Its current value is said to be about
fifteen, and its intrinsic about twelve pence, or five Madras fanams.
Eighty of these are equal to the bangkal, of which twenty make a katti.
The tail, here an imaginary valuation, is one-fifth of the bangÂ­kal, and
equal to sixteen mas. The small leaden money, called pitis or cash, is
likewise struck here for the service of the bazaar; but neither these nor
the former afford any convenience to the foreign trader. Dollars and
rupees pass current, and most other species of coin are taken at a
valuation; but payments are commonly made in gold dust, and for that
purpose everyone is provided with small scales or steelyards, called
daching. They carry their gold about them, wrapped in small pieces of
bladder (or rather the integument of the heart), and often make purchases
to so small an amount as to employ grains of padi or other seeds for
weights.

GOVERNMENT.

The monarchy is hereditary, and is more or less absolute in proportion to
the talents of the reigning prince; no other bounds being set to his
authority than the counterbalance or check it meets with from the power
of the great vassals, and disaffection of the commonalty. But this
resistance is exerted in so irregular a manner, and with so little view
to the public good, that nothing like liberty results from it. They
experience only an alternative of tyranny and anarchy, or the former
under different shapes. Many of the other Sumatran people are in the
possession of a very high degree of freedom, founded upon a rigid
attachment to their old established customs and laws. The king usually
maintains a guard of a hundred sepoys (from the Coromandel coast) about
his palace, but pays them indifferently.

The grand council of the nation consists of the king or Sultan, the
maharaja, laksamana, paduka tuan, and bandhara. Inferior in rank to these
are the ulubalangs or military champions, among whom are several
gradations of rank, who sit on the king's right hand, and other officers
named kajuran, who sit on his left. At his feet sits a woman, to whom he
makes known his pleasure: by her it is communicated to a eunuch, who sits
next to her, and by him to an officer, named Kajuran Gondang, who then
proclaims it aloud to the assembly. There are also present two other
officers, one of whom has the government of the Bazaar or market, and the
other the superintending and carrying into execution the punishment of
criminals. All matters relative to commerce and the customs of the port
come under the jurisdiction of the Shabandar, who performs the ceremony
of giving the chap or licence for trade; which is done by lifting a
golden-hafted kris over the head of the merchant who arrives, and without
which he dares not to land his goods. Presents, the value of which are
become pretty regularly ascertained, are then sent to the king and his
officers. If the stranger be in the style of an ambassador the royal
elephants are sent down to carry him and his letters to the monarch's
presence; these being first delivered into the hands of a eunuch, who
places them in a silver dish, covered with rich silk, on the back of the
largest elephant, which is provided with a machine (houdar) for that
purpose. Within about a hundred yards of an open hall where the king sits
the cavalcade stops, and the ambassador dismounts and makes his obeisance
by bending his body and lifting his joined hands to his head. When he
enters the palace, if a European, he is obliged to take off his shoes,
and having made a second obeisance is seated upon a carpet on the floor,
where betel is brought to him. The throne was some years ago of ivory and
tortoiseshell; and when the place was governed by queens a curtain of
gauze was hung before it, which did not obstruct the audience, but
prevented any perfect view. The stranger, after some general discourse,
is then conducted to a separate building, where he is entertained with
the delicacies of the country by the officers of state, and in the
evening returns in the manner he came, surrounded by a prodigious number
of lights. On high days (ari raya) the king goes in great state, mounted
on an elephant richly caparisoned, to the great mosque, preceded by his
ulubalangs, who are armed nearly in the European manner.

