1521.

Irritated by these acts, the sultan resolved to proceed to extremities
against him; but by means of the plunder of some Portuguese vessels, as
before related, and the recent defeat of Brito's party, he became so
strong in artillery and ammunition, and so much elated with success, that
he set his master at defiance and prepared to defend himself. His force
proved superior to that of Pidir, and in the end he obliged the sultan to
fly for refuge and assistance to the European fortress at Pase,
accompanied by his nephew, the chief of Daya, who was also forced from
his possessions.

1522.

Ibrahim had for some time infested the Portuguese by sending out parties
against them, both by sea and land; but these being always baffled in
their attempts with much loss, he began to conceive a violent antipathy
against that nation, which he ever after indulged to excess. He got
possession of the city of Pidir by bribing the principal officers, a mode
of warfare that he often found successful and seldom neglected to
attempt. These he prevailed upon to write a letter to their master,
couched in artful terms, in which they besought him to come to their
assistance with a body of Portuguese, as the only chance of repelling the
enemy by whom they pretended to be invested. The sultan showed this
letter to Andre Henriquez, then governor of the fort, who, thinking it a
good opportunity to chastise the Achinese, sent by sea a detachment of
eighty Europeans and two hundred Malays under the command of his brother
Manuel, whilst the sultan marched overland with a thousand men and
fifteen elephants to the relief of the place. They arrived at Pidir in
the night, but, being secretly informed that the king of Achin was master
of the city, and that the demand for succour was a stratagem, they
endeavoured to make their retreat; which the land troops effected, but
before the tide could enable the Portuguese to get their boats afloat
they were attacked by the Achinese, who killed Manuel and thirty-five of
his men.

