1524.

Henriquez, after beating sometime against a contrary wind, put back to
Pase, and, coming on shore the day after this conflict, resumed his
command. A council was soon after held to determine what measures were
fittest to be pursued in the present situation of affairs, and, taking
into their consideration that no further assistance could be expected
from the west of India in less than six months, that the garrison was
sickly and provisions short, it was resolved by a majority of votes to
abandon the place, and measures were taken accordingly. In order to
conceal their intentions from the enemy they ordered such of the
artillery and stores as could be removed conveniently to be packed up in
the form of merchandise and then shipped off. A party was left to set
fire to the buildings, and trains of powder were so disposed as to lead
to the larger cannon, which they overcharged that they might burst as
soon as heated. But this was not effectually executed, and the pieces
mostly fell into the hands of the Achinese, who upon the first alarm of
the evacuation rushed in, extinguished the flames, and turned upon the
Portuguese their own artillery, many of whom were killed in the water as
they hurried to get into their boats. They now lost as much credit by
this ill conducted retreat as they had acquired by their gallant defence,
and were insulted by the reproachful shouts of the enemy, whose power was
greatly increased by this acquisition of military stores, and of which
they often severely experienced the effects. To render their disgrace
more striking it happened that as they sailed out of the harbour they met
thirty boats laden with provisions for their use from the king of Aru,
who was himself on his march overland with four thousand men: and when
they arrived at Malacca they found troops and stores embarked there for
their relief. The unfortunate princes who had sought an asylum with them
now joined in their flight; the sultan of Pase proceeded to Malacca, and
the sultan of Pidir and chief of Daya took refuge with the king of Aru.

