Senaia had promised to put the citadel into his hands, and this had
certainly been executed but for an accident that discovered his
treasonable designs. The crews of some vessels of the Achinese fleet
landed on a part of the coast not far from the city, where they were well
entertained by the natives, and in the openness of conviviality related
the transactions which had lately passed at Achin, the correspondence of
Senaia, and the scheme that was laid for rising on the Portuguese when
they should be at church, murdering them, and seizing the fortress.
Intelligence of this was reported with speed to the governor, who had
Senaia instantly apprehended and executed. This punishment served to
intimidate those among the inhabitants who were engaged in the
conspiracy, and disconcerted the plans of the king of Achin.

This appears to be the last transaction of Ibrahim's reign recorded by
the Portuguese historians. His death is stated by De Barros to have taken
place in the year 1528 in consequence of poison administered to him by
one of his wives, to revenge the injuries her brother, the chief of Daya,
had suffered at his hand. In a Malayan work (lately come into my
possession) containing the annals of the kingdom of Achin, it is said
that a king, whose title was sultan Saleh-eddin-shah, obtained the
sovereignty in a year answering to 1511 of our era, and who, after
reigning about eighteen years, was dethroned by a brother in 1529.
Notwithstanding some apparent discordance between the two accounts there
can be little doubt of the circumstances applying to the same individual,
as it may well be presumed that, according to the usual practice in the
East, he adopted upon ascending the throne a title different from the
name which he had originally borne, although that might continue to be
his more familiar appellation, especially in the mouths of his enemies.
The want of precise coincidence in the dates cannot be thought an
objection, as the event not falling under the immediate observation of
the Portuguese they cannot pretend to accuracy within a few months, and
even their account of the subsequent transactions renders it more
probable that it happened in 1529; nor are the facts of his being
dethroned by the brother, or put to death by the sister, materially at
variance with each other; and the latter circumstance, whether true or
false, might naturally enough be reported at Malacca.

