1628.

Still retaining a strong desire to possess himself of Malacca, so many
years the grand object of Achinese ambition, he imprisoned the ambassador
then at his court, and made extraordinary preparations for the siege,
which he designed to undertake in person. The laksamana or commander in
chief (who had effected all the king's late conquests) attempted to
oppose this resolution; but the maharaja, willing to flatter his master's
propensity, undertook to put him in possession of the city and had the
command of the fleet given to him, as the other had of the land forces.
The king set out on the expedition with a fleet of two hundred and fifty
sail (fortyÂ­seven of them not less than a hundred feet in the keel), in
which were twenty thousand men well appointed, and a great train of
artillery. After being some time on board, with his family and retinue as
usual, he determined, on account of an ill omen that was observed, to
return to the shore. The generals, proceeding without him, soon arrived
before Malacca. Having landed their men they made a judicious
disposition, and began the attack with much courage and military skill.
The Portuguese were obliged to abandon several of their posts, one of
which, after a defence of fifty days, was levelled with the ground, and
from its ruins strong works were raised by the laksamana. The maharaja
had seized another post advantageously situated. From their several camps
they had lines of communication, and the boats on the river were
stationed in such a manner that the place was completely invested.
Matters were in this posture when a force of two thousand men came to the
assistance of the besieged from the king of Pahang, and likewise five
sail of Portuguese vessels from the coast of Coromandel; but all was
insufficient to remove so powerful an enemy, although by that time they
had lost four thousand of their troops in the different attacks and
skirmishes. In the latter end of the year a fleet of thirty sail of
ships, large and small, under the command of Nunno Alvarez Botello,
having on board nine hundred European soldiers, appeared off Malacca, and
blocked up the fleet of Achin in a river about three miles from the town.
This entirely altered the complexion of affairs. The besiegers retired
from their advanced works and hastened to the defence of their galleys,
erecting batteries by the side of the river. The maharaja being summoned
to surrender returned a civil but resolute answer. In the night,
endeavouring to make his escape with the smaller vessels through the
midst of the Portuguese, he was repulsed and wounded. Next day the whole
force of the Achinese dropped down the stream with a design to fight
their way, but after an engagement of two hours their principal galley,
named the Terror of the World, was boarded and taken, after losing five
hundred men of seven which she carried. Many other vessels were
afterwards captured or sunk. The laksamana hung out a white flag and sent
to treat with Nunno, but, some difficulty arising about the terms, the
engagement was renewed with great warmth. News was brought to the
Portuguese that the maharaja was killed and that the king of Pahang was
approaching with a hundred sail of vessels to reinforce them. Still the
Achinese kept up a dreadful fire, which seemed to render the final
success doubtful; but at length they sent proposals desiring only to be
allowed three galleys of all their fleet to carry away four thousand men
who remained of twenty that came before the town. It was answered that
they must surrender at discretion; which the laksamana hesitating to do,
a furious assault took place both by water and land upon his galleys and
works, which were all effectually destroyed or captured, not a ship and
scarcely a man escaping. He himself in the last extremity fled to the
woods, but was seized ere long by the king of Pahang's scouts. Being
brought before the governor he said to him, with an undaunted
countenance, "Behold here the laksamana for the first time overcome!" He
was treated with respect but kept a prisoner, and sent on his own famous
ship to Goa in order to be from thence conveyed to Portugal: but death
deprived his enemies of that distinguished ornament of their triumph.

