In order to retain a share in the pepper-trade the English turned their
thoughts towards Achin, and a deputation, consisting of two gentlemen, of
the names of Old and Cawley, was sent thither in 1684; the success of
which is above related. It happened that at this time certain Rajas or
chiefs of the country of Priaman and other places on the west coast of
Sumatra were at Achin also to solicit aid of that court against the
Dutch, who had made war upon and otherwise molested them. These
immediately applied to Mr. Ord, expressing a strong desire that the
English should settle in their respective districts, offering ground for
a fort and the exclusive purchase of their pepper. They consented to
embark for Madras, where an agreement was formed with them by the
governor in the beginning of the year 1685 on the terms they had
proposed. In consequence of this an expedition was fitted out with the
design of establishing a settlement at Priaman; but a day or two before
the ships sailed an invitation to the like purport was received from the
chiefs of BangÂ­kaulu (since corruptly called Bencoolen); and as it was
known that a considerable proportion of the pepper that used to be
exported from Bantam had been collected from the neighbourhood of
Bencoolen (at a place called Silebar), it was judged advisable that Mr.
Ord, who was the person entrusted with the management of this business,
should first proceed thither; particularly as at that season of the year
it was the windward port. He arrived there on the twenty-fifth day of
June 1685, and, after taking possession of the country assigned to the
English Company, and leaving Mr. Broome in charge of the place, he sailed
for the purpose of establishing the other settlements. He stopped first
at Indrapura, where he found three Englishmen who were left of a small
factory that had been some time before settled there by a man of the name
of Du Jardin. Here he learned that the Dutch, having obtained a knowledge
of the original intention of our fixing at Priaman, had anticipated us
therein and sent a party to occupy the situation. In the meantime it was
understood in Europe that this place was the chief of our establishments
on the coast, and ships were accordingly consigned thither. The same was
supposed at Madras, and troops and stores were sent to reinforce it,
which were afterwards landed at Indrapura. A settlement was then formed
at Manjuta, and another attempted at Batang-kapas in 1686; but here the
Dutch, assisted by a party amongst the natives, assaulted and drove out
our people. Every possible opposition, as it was natural to expect, was
given by these our rivals to the success of our factories. They fixed
themselves in the neighbourhood of them and endeavoured to obstruct the
country people from carrying pepper to them or supplying them with
provisions either by sea or land. Our interests however in the end
prevailed, and Bencoolen in particular, to which the other places were
rendered subordinate in 1686, began to acquire some degree of vigour and
respectability. In 1689 encouragement was given to Chinese colonists to
settle there, whose number has been continually increasing from that
time. In 1691 the Dutch felt the loss of their influence at Silebar and
other of the southern countries, where they attempted to exert authority
in the name of the sultan of Bantam, and the produce of these places was
delivered to the English. This revolution proceeded from the works with
which about this time our factory was strengthened. In 1695 a settlement
was made at Triamang, and two years after at Kattaun and Sablat. The
first, in the year 1700, was removed to Bantal. Various applications were
made by the natives in different parts of the island for the
establishment of factories, particularly from Ayer-Bangis to the
northward, Palembang on the eastern side, and the people from the
countries south of Tallo, near Manna. A person was sent to survey these
last, as far as Pulo Pisang and Kroi, in 1715. In consequence of the
inconvenience attending the shipping of goods from Bencoolen River, which
is often impracticable from the surfs, a warehouse was built in 1701 at a
place then called the cove; which gave the first idea of removing the
settlement to the point of land which forms the bay of Bencoolen. The
unhealthiness of the old situation was thought to render this an
expedient step; and accordingly about 1714 it was in great measure
relinquished, and the foundations of Fort Marlborough were laid on a spot
two or three miles distant. Being a high plain it was judged to possess
considerable advantages; many of which however are counterbalanced by its
want of the vicinity of a river, so necessary for the ready and plentiful
supply of provisions. Some progress had been made in the erection of this
fort when an accident happened that had nearly destroyed the Company's
views. The natives incensed at ill treatment received from the Europeans,
who were then but little versed in the knowledge of their dispositions or
the art of managing them by conciliating methods, rose in a body in the
year 1719, and forced the garrison, whose ignorant fears rendered them
precipitate, to seek refuge on board their ships. These people began now
to feel alarms lest the Dutch, taking advantage of the absence of the
English, should attempt an establishment, and soon permitted some persons
from the northern factories to resettle the place; and, supplies arriving
from Madras, things returned to their former course, and the fort was
completed. The Company's affairs on this coast remained in tranquillity
for a number of years. The important settlement of Natal was established
in 1752, and that of Tappanuli a short time afterwards; which involved
the English in fresh disputes with the Dutch, who set up a claim to the
country in which they are situated. In the year 1760 the French under
Comte d'Estaing destroyed all the English settlements on the coast of
Sumatra; but they were soon reestablished and our possession secured by
the treaty of Paris in 1763. Fort Marlborough, which had been hitherto a
peculiar subordinate of Fort St. George, was now formed into an
independent presidency, and was furnished with a charter for erecting a
mayor's court, but which has never been enforced. In 1781 a detachment of
military from thence embarked upon five East India ships and took
possession of Padang and all other Dutch factories in consequence of the
war with that nation. In 1782 the magazine of Fort Marlborough, in which
were four hundred barrels of powder, was fired by lightning and blew up;
but providentially few lives were lost. In 1802 an act of parliament was
passed "to authorize the East India Company to make their settlement at
Fort Marlborough in the East Indies, a factory subordinate to the
presidency of Fort William in Bengal, and to transfer the servants who on
the reduction of that establishment shall be supernumerary, to the
presidency of Fort St. George." In 1798 plants of the nutmeg and clove
had for the first time been procured from the Moluccas; and in 1803 a
large importation of these valuable articles of cultivation took place.
As the plantations were, by the last accounts from thence, in the most
flourishing state, very important commercial advantages were expected to
be derived from the culture.)

