1704.

Advantage was taken of the public discontents to raise an insurrection in
favour of the nephew of the late queen, or, according to the Annals, the
son of Beder al-alum (who was probably her brother), in the event of
which Perkasa-alum was deposed about the commencement of the year 1704,
and after an interregnum or anarchy of three months continuance, the
young prince obtained possession of the throne, by the name of Jemal
al-alum. From this period the native writers furnish very ample details
of the transactions of the Achinese government, as well as of the general
state of the country, whose prosperous circumstances during the early
part of this king's reign are strongly contrasted with the misery and
insignificance to which it was reduced by subsequent events. The causes
and progress of this political decline cannot be more satisfactorily set
forth than in a faithful translation of the Malayan narrative which was
drawn up, or extracted from a larger work, for my use, and is distinct
from the Annals already mentioned:

When raja Jemal al-alum reigned in Achin the country was exceedingly
populous, the nobles had large possessions, the merchants were numerous
and opulent, the judgments of the king were just, and no man could
experience the severity of punishment but through his own fault. In those
days the king could not trade on his own account, the nobles having
combined to prevent it; but the accustomed duties of the port were
considered as his revenue, and ten per cent was levied for this purpose
upon all merchandise coming into the country. The city was then of great
extent, the houses were of brick and stone. The most considerable
merchant was a man named Daniel, a Hollander; but many of different
nations were also settled there, some from Surat, some from Kutch, others
from China. When ships arrived in the port, if the merchants could not
take off all the cargoes the king advanced the funds for purchasing what
remained, and divided the goods among them, taking no profit to himself.
After the departure of the vessel the king was paid in gold the amount of
his principal, without interest.

