About two years after this transaction the king, under pretence of
amusement, made an excursion to the country lying near the source of the
river Achin, then under the jurisdiction of a panglima or governor named
Muda Seti; for it must be understood that this part of the kingdom is
divided into three districts, known by the appellations of the
Twenty-two, Twenty-six, and Twenty-five Mukims (see above), which were
governed respectively by Muda Seti, Imam Muda, and PerbawangÂ­Shah (or
Purba-wangsa). These three chiefs had the entire control of the country,
and when their views were united they had the power of deposing and
setting up kings. Such was the nature of the government. The king's
expedition was undertaken with the design of making himself master of the
person of Muda Seti, who had given him umbrage, and on this occasion his
followers of all ranks were so numerous that wherever they halted for the
night the fruits of the earth were all devoured, as well as great
multitudes of cattle. Muda Seti however, being aware of the designs
against him, had withdrawn himself from the place of his usual residence
and was not to be found when the king arrived there; but a report being
brought that he had collected five or six hundred followers and was
preparing to make resistance, orders were immediately given for burning
his house. This being effected, the king returned immediately to Achin,
leaving the forces that had accompanied him at a place called Pakan
Badar, distant about half a day's journey from the capital, where they
were directed to entrench themselves. From this post they were driven by
the country chief, who advanced rapidly upon them with several thousand
men, and forced them to fall back to Padang Siring, where the king was
collecting an army, and where a battle was fought soon after, that
terminated in the defeat of the royal party with great slaughter. Those
who escaped took refuge in the castle along with the king.

1723.

Under these disastrous circumstances he called upon the chiefs who
adhered to him to advise what was best to be done, surrounded as they
were by the country people, on whom he invoked the curse of God; when one
of them, named Panglima Maharaja, gave it as his opinion that the only
effectual measure by which the country could be saved from ruin would be
the king's withdrawing himself from the capital so long as the enemy
should continue in its vicinity, appointing a regent from among the
nobles to govern the country in his absence; and when subordination
should be restored he might then return and take again possession of his
throne. To this proposition he signified his assent on the condition that
Panglima Maharaja should assure him by an oath that no treachery was
intended; which oath was accordingly taken, and the king, having
nominated as his substitute Maharaja Lela, one of the least considerable
of the ulubalangs, retired with his wives and children to the country of
the Four mukims, situated about three hours journey to the westward of
the city. (The Annals say he fled to Pidir in November 1723.) Great
ravages were committed by the insurgents, but they did not attack the
palace, and after some days of popular confusion the chiefs of the Three
districts, who (says the writer) must not be confounded with the officers
about the person of the king, held a consultation amongst themselves,
and, exercising an authority of which there had been frequent examples,
set up Panglima Maharaja in the room of the abdicated king (by the title,
say the Annals, of Juhar al-alum, in December 1723). About seven days
after his elevation he was seized with a convulsive disorder in his neck
and died. A nephew of Jemal al-alum, named Undei Tebang, was then placed
upon the throne, but notwithstanding his having bribed the chiefs of the
Three districts with thirty katties of gold, they permitted him to enjoy
his dignity only a few days, and then deposed him. (The same authority
states that he was set up by the chiefs of the Four mukims, and removed
through the influence of Muda Seti.)

