1724. 1735.

The person whom they next combined to raise to the throne was Maharaja
Lela (before mentioned as the king's substitute). It was his good fortune
to govern the country in tranquillity for the space of nearly twelve
years, during which period the city of Achin recovered its population.
(According to the Annals he began to reign in February 1724, by the title
of Ala ed-din Ahmed shah Juhan, and died in June 1735.) It happened that
the same day on which the event of his death took place Jemal al-alum
again made his appearance, and advanced to a mosque near the city. His
friends advised him to lose no time in possessing himself of the castle,
but for trifling reasons that mark the weakness of his character he
resolved to defer the measure till the succeeding day; and the
opportunity, as might be expected, was lost. The deceased king left five
sons, the eldest of whom, named Po-chat-au (or Po-wak, according to
another manuscript) exhorted his brothers to unite with him in the
determination of resisting a person whose pretensions were entirely
inconsistent with their security. They accordingly sent to demand
assistance of Perbawang-shah, chief of the district of the Twenty-five
mukims, which lies the nearest to that quarter. He arrived before
morning, embraced the five princes, confirmed them in their resolution,
and authorised the eldest to assume the government (which he did, say the
Annals, by the title of Ala ed-din Juhan-shah in September 1735.) But to
this measure the concurrence of the other chiefs was wanting. At daybreak
the guns of the castle began to play upon the mosque, and, some of the
shot penetrating its walls, the pusillanimous Jemal al-alum, being
alarmed at the danger, judged it advisable to retreat from thence and to
set up his standard in another quarter, called kampong Jawa, his people
at the same time retaining possession of the mosque. A regular warfare
now ensued between the two parties and continued for no less than ten
years (the great chiefs taking different sides), when at length some kind
of compromise was effected that left Po-chat-au (JuhanÂ­shah) in the
possession of the throne, which he afterwards enjoyed peaceably for eight
years, and no further mention is made of Jemal al-alum. About this period
the chiefs took umbrage at his interfering in matters of trade, contrary
to what they asserted to be the established custom of the realm, and
assembled their forces in order to intimidate him. (The history of Achin
presents a continual struggle between the monarch and the aristocracy of
the country, which generally made the royal monopoly of trade the ground
of crimination and pretext for their rebellions).

