Mr. Miller describes these people as being taller and fairer than the
Malays, their hair black, which the men cut short, and the women wear
long, and neatly turned up. The former go entirely naked except that they
sometimes throw a piece of bark of tree, or plantain-leaf over their
shoulders to protect them from the heat of the sun. The latter also are
naked except a small slip of plantain-leaf round the waist; and some had
on their heads fresh leaves made up nearly in the shape of a bonnet, with
necklaces of small pieces of shell, and a shell hanging by a string, to
be used as a comb. The ears of both men and women have large holes made
in them, an inch or two in diameter, into which they put a ring made of
coconut-shell or a roll of leaves. They do not chew betel. Their language
was not understood by any person on board, although there were people
from most parts adjacent to the coast. Their canoes are very neat, formed
of two thin planks sewn together, sharp-pointed at each end and provided
with outriggers. In general they contain six or seven men. They always
carry lances, not only as offensive weapons, but for striking fish. These
are about seven feet in length, formed of niÂ­bong and other hard woods;
some of them tipped with pieces of bamboo made very sharp, and the
concave part filled with fish-bones (and shark's teeth), others armed
with pieces of bone made sharp and notched, and others pointed with bits
of iron and copper sharpened. They seemed not to be unaccustomed to the
sight of vessels. (Ships bound from the ports of India to the straits of
Sunda, as well as those from Europe, when late in the season, frequently
make the land of Engano, and many must doubtless be wrecked on its
coast).

Attempts were made to find a river or fresh water, but without success,
nor even a good place to land. Two of the people from the ship having
pushed in among the rocks and landed the natives soon came to them,
snatched their handkerchiefs off their heads and ran away with them, but
dropped them on being pursued. Soon afterwards they sounded a
conch-shell, which brought numbers of them down to the beach. The bay
appeared to be well sheltered and to afford good anchorage ground. The
soil of the country for the most part a red clay. The productions Mr.
Miller thought the same as are commonly found on the coast of Sumatra;
but circumstances did not admit of his penetrating into the country,
which, contrary to expectation, was found to be so full of inhabitants.
In consequence of the loss of anchors and cables it was judged necessary
that the vessel should return to Fort Marlborough. Having taken in the
necessary supplies, the island was revisited. Finding no landing-place,
the boat was run upon the coral rocks. Signs were made to the natives,
who had collected in considerable numbers, and upon seeing our people
land had retreated towards some houses, to stop, but to no purpose until
Mr. Miller proceeded towards them unaccompanied, when they approached in
great numbers and accepted of knives, pieces of cloth, etc. Observing a
spot of cultivated ground surrounded by a sort of fence he went to it,
followed by several of the natives who made signs to deter him, and as
soon as he was out of sight of his own people began to handle his clothes
and attempt to pull them off, when he returned to the beach.

