Their houses stand singly in their plantations, are circular, about eight
feet in diameter, raised about six from the ground on slender ironÂ­wood
sticks, floored with planks, and the roof, which is thatched with long
grass, rises from the floor in a conical shape. No rice was seen among
them, nor did they appear to know the use of it when shown to them; nor
were cattle nor fowls of any kind observed about their houses.

Having anchored off a low point of marshy land in the northern part of
the bay, where the natives seemed to be more accustomed to intercourse
with strangers, the party landed in hopes of finding a path to some
houses about two miles inland. Upon observing signs made to them by some
people on the coral reef Mr. Miller and Mr. Whalfeldt went towards them
in the sampan, when some among them took an opportunity of stealing the
latter's hanger and running away with it; upon which they were
immediately fired at by some of the party, and notwithstanding Mr.
Miller's endeavours to prevent them both the officer and men continued to
fire upon and pursue the natives through the morass, but without being
able to overtake them. Meeting however with some houses they set fire to
them, and brought off two women and a boy whom the caffrees had seized.
The officers on board the vessel, alarmed at the firing and seeing Mr.
Miller alone in the sampan, whilst several canoes full of people were
rowing towards him, sent the pinnace with some sepoys to his assistance.
During the night conch-shells were heard to sound almost all over the
bay, and in the morning several large parties were observed on different
parts of the beach. All further communication with the inhabitants being
interrupted by this imprudent quarrel, and the purposes of the expedition
thereby frustrated, it was not thought advisable to remain any longer at
Engano, and Mr. Miller, after visiting some parts of the southern coast
of Sumatra, returned to Fort Marlborough.

PULO MEGA.

