The number of inhabitants of the two islands is supposed not to exceed
1400 persons. They are divided into small tribes, each occupying a small
river and living in one village. On the southern island are five of these
villages, and on the northern seven, of which Kakap is accounted the
chief, although Labu-labu is supposed to contain the greater number of
people. Their houses are built of bamboos and raised on posts; the under
part is occupied by poultry and hogs, and, as may be supposed, much filth
is collected there. Their arms consist of a bow and arrows. The former is
made of the nibong-tree, and the string of the entrails of some animal.
The arrows are of small bamboo, headed with brass or with a piece of hard
wood cut to a point. With these they kill deer, which are roused by dogs
of a mongrel breed, and also monkeys, whose flesh they eat. Some among
them wear krises. It was said that the different tribes of orang mantawei
who inhabit these islands never make war upon each other, but with people
of islands to the northward they are occasionally in a state of
hostility. The measurement of one of their war-canoes, preserved with
great care under a shed, was twenty-five feet in the length of the floor,
the prow projecting twenty-two, and the stern eighteen, making the whole
length sixty-five feet. The greatest breadth was five feet, and the depth
three feet eight inches. For navigating in their rivers and the straits
of Si Kakap, where the sea is as smooth as glass, they employ canoes,
formed with great neatness of a single tree, and the women and young
children are extremely expert in the management of the paddle. They are
strangers to the use of coin of any kind, and have little knowledge of
metals. The iron bill or chopping-knife, called parang, is in much esteem
among them, it serves as a standard for the value of other commodities,
such as articles of provision.

The religion of these people, if it deserves the name, resembles much
what has been described of the Battas; but their mode of disposing of
their dead is different, and analogous rather to the practice of the
SouthÂ­sea islanders, the corpse, being deposited on a sort of stage in a
place appropriated for the purpose, and with a few leaves strewed over
it, is left to decay. Inheritance is by male descent; the house or
plantation, the weapons and tools of the father, become the property of
the sons. Their chiefs are but little distinguished from the rest of the
community by authority or possessions, their pre-eminence being chiefly
displayed at public entertainments, of which they do the honours. They
have not even judicial powers, all disputes being settled, and crimes
adjudged, by a meeting of the whole village. Murder is punishable by
retaliation, for which purpose the offender is delivered over to the
relations of the deceased, who may put him to death; but the crime is
rare. Theft, when to a considerable amount, is also capital. In cases of
adultery the injured husband has a right to seize the effects of the
paramour, and sometimes punishes his wife by cutting off her hair. When
the husband offends the wife has a right to quit him and to return to her
parents' house. Simple fornication between unmarried persons is neither
considered as a crime nor a disgrace. The state of slavery is unknown
among these people, and they do not practise circumcision.

