SI PORAH OR GOOD FORTUNE.

North-westward of the Pagi islands, and at no great distance, lies that
of Si Porah, commonly denominated Good Fortune Island, inhabited by the
same race as the former, and with the same manners and language. The
principal towns or villages are named Si Porah, containing, when visited
by Mr. John Saul in 1750, three hundred inhabitants, Si Labah three
hundred (several of whom were originally from the neighbouring island of
Nias), Si Bagau two hundred, and Si Uban a smaller number; and when
Captain Forrest made his inquiries in 1757 there was not any material
variation. Since that period, though the island has been occasionally
visited, it does not appear that any report has been preserved of the
state of the population. The country is described as being entirely
covered with wood. The highest land is in the vicinity of Si Labah.

SI BIRU.

The next island in the same direction is named Si Biru, which, although
of considerable size, being larger than Si Porah, has commonly been
omitted in our charts, or denoted to be uncertain. It is inhabited by the
Mantawei race, and the natives both of Si Porah and the Pagi Islands
consider it as their parent country, but notwithstanding this connexion
they are generally in a state of hostility, and in 1783 no intercourse
subsisted between them. The inhabitants are distinguished only by some
small variety of the patterns in which their skins are tattooed, those of
Si Biru having them narrower on the breast and broader on the shoulders.
The island itself is rendered conspicuous by a volcanoÂ­mountain.

PULO BATU.

Next to this is Pulo Batu, situated immediately to the southward of the
equinoctial line, and, in consequence of an original mistake in
Valentyn's erroneous chart, published in 1726, usually called by
navigators Mintaon, being a corruption of the word Mantawei, which, as
already explained, is appropriated to a race inhabiting the islands of Si
Biru, Si Porah, and Pagi. Batu, on the contrary, is chiefly peopled by a
colony from Nias. These pay a yearly tax to the raja of Buluaro, a small
kampong in the interior part of the island, belonging to a race different
from both, and whose number it is said amounts only to one hundred, which
it is not allowed to exceed, so many children being reared as may replace
the deaths. They are reported to bear a resemblance to the people of
Makasar or Bugis, and may have been adventurers from that quarter. The
influence of their raja over the Nias inhabitants, who exceed his
immediate subjects in the proportion of twenty to one, is founded on the
superstitious belief that the water of the island will become salt when
they neglect to pay the tax. He in his turn, being in danger from the
power of the Malay traders who resort thither from Padang and are not
affected by the same superstition, is constrained to pay them to the
amount of sixteen ounces of gold as an annual tribute.

