“Five years’ rigorous confinement in a fortress,” Mr Verloc answered
unexpectedly, but without any sign of feeling.

“You got off easily,” was Mr Vladimir’s comment.  “And, anyhow, it served
you right for letting yourself get caught.  What made you go in for that
sort of thing—eh?”

Mr Verloc’s husky conversational voice was heard speaking of youth, of a
fatal infatuation for an unworthy—

“Aha!  Cherchez la femme,” Mr Vladimir deigned to interrupt, unbending,
but without affability; there was, on the contrary, a touch of grimness
in his condescension.  “How long have you been employed by the Embassy
here?” he asked.

“Ever since the time of the late Baron Stott-Wartenheim,” Mr Verloc
answered in subdued tones, and protruding his lips sadly, in sign of
sorrow for the deceased diplomat.  The First Secretary observed this play
of physiognomy steadily.

“Ah! ever since.  Well!  What have you got to say for yourself?” he asked
sharply.

Mr Verloc answered with some surprise that he was not aware of having
anything special to say.  He had been summoned by a letter—And he plunged
his hand busily into the side pocket of his overcoat, but before the
mocking, cynical watchfulness of Mr Vladimir, concluded to leave it
there.

“Bah!” said that latter.  “What do you mean by getting out of condition
like this?  You haven’t got even the physique of your profession.  You—a
member of a starving proletariat—never!  You—a desperate socialist or
anarchist—which is it?”

“Anarchist,” stated Mr Verloc in a deadened tone.

“Bosh!” went on Mr Vladimir, without raising his voice.  “You startled
old Wurmt himself.  You wouldn’t deceive an idiot.  They all are that
by-the-by, but you seem to me simply impossible.  So you began your
connection with us by stealing the French gun designs.  And you got
yourself caught.  That must have been very disagreeable to our
Government.  You don’t seem to be very smart.”

Mr Verloc tried to exculpate himself huskily.

