Ossipon’s face had turned dusky red.

“At the perfect detonator—eh?” he sneered, very low.

“Yes,” retorted the other.  “It is a good definition.  You couldn’t find
anything half so precise to define the nature of your activity with all
your committees and delegations.  It is I who am the true propagandist.”

“We won’t discuss that point,” said Ossipon, with an air of rising above
personal considerations.  “I am afraid I’ll have to spoil your holiday
for you, though.  There’s a man blown up in Greenwich Park this morning.”

“How do you know?”

“They have been yelling the news in the streets since two o’clock.  I
bought the paper, and just ran in here.  Then I saw you sitting at this
table.  I’ve got it in my pocket now.”

He pulled the newspaper out.  It was a good-sized rosy sheet, as if
flushed by the warmth of its own convictions, which were optimistic.  He
scanned the pages rapidly.

“Ah!  Here it is.  Bomb in Greenwich Park.  There isn’t much so far.
Half-past eleven.  Foggy morning.  Effects of explosion felt as far as
Romney Road and Park Place.  Enormous hole in the ground under a tree
filled with smashed roots and broken branches.  All round fragments of a
man’s body blown to pieces.  That’s all.  The rest’s mere newspaper gup.
No doubt a wicked attempt to blow up the Observatory, they say.  H’m.
That’s hardly credible.”

He looked at the paper for a while longer in silence, then passed it to
the other, who after gazing abstractedly at the print laid it down
without comment.

It was Ossipon who spoke first—still resentful.

“The fragments of only _one_ man, you note.  Ergo: blew _himself_ up.
That spoils your day off for you—don’t it?  Were you expecting that sort
of move?  I hadn’t the slightest idea—not the ghost of a notion of
anything of the sort being planned to come off here—in this country.
Under the present circumstances it’s nothing short of criminal.”

The little man lifted his thin black eyebrows with dispassionate scorn.

