“He would, would he?” muttered the proud head of Sir Ethelred from its
lofty elevation.

“I am afraid so—with an indignation and disgust of which you or I can
have no idea.  He’s an excellent servant.  We must not put an undue
strain on his loyalty.  That’s always a mistake.  Besides, I want a free
hand—a freer hand than it would be perhaps advisable to give Chief
Inspector Heat.  I haven’t the slightest wish to spare this man Verloc.
He will, I imagine, be extremely startled to find his connection with
this affair, whatever it may be, brought home to him so quickly.
Frightening him will not be very difficult.  But our true objective lies
behind him somewhere.  I want your authority to give him such assurances
of personal safety as I may think proper.”

“Certainly,” said the Personage on the hearthrug.  “Find out as much as
you can; find it out in your own way.”

“I must set about it without loss of time, this very evening,” said the
Assistant Commissioner.

Sir Ethelred shifted one hand under his coat tails, and tilting back his
head, looked at him steadily.

“We’ll have a late sitting to-night,” he said.  “Come to the House with
your discoveries if we are not gone home.  I’ll warn Toodles to look out
for you.  He’ll take you into my room.”

The numerous family and the wide connections of the youthful-looking
Private Secretary cherished for him the hope of an austere and exalted
destiny.  Meantime the social sphere he adorned in his hours of idleness
chose to pet him under the above nickname.  And Sir Ethelred, hearing it
on the lips of his wife and girls every day (mostly at breakfast-time),
had conferred upon it the dignity of unsmiling adoption.

The Assistant Commissioner was surprised and gratified extremely.

“I shall certainly bring my discoveries to the House on the chance of you
having the time to—”

“I won’t have the time,” interrupted the great Personage.  “But I will
see you.  I haven’t the time now—And you are going yourself?”

