He became aware of the waiter at his elbow and of a small pile of silver
coins on the edge of the table before him.  The waiter kept one eye on
it, while his other eye followed the long back of a tall, not very young
girl, who passed up to a distant table looking perfectly sightless and
altogether unapproachable.  She seemed to be a habitual customer.

On going out the Assistant Commissioner made to himself the observation
that the patrons of the place had lost in the frequentation of fraudulent
cookery all their national and private characteristics.  And this was
strange, since the Italian restaurant is such a peculiarly British
institution.  But these people were as denationalised as the dishes set
before them with every circumstance of unstamped respectability.  Neither
was their personality stamped in any way, professionally, socially or
racially.  They seemed created for the Italian restaurant, unless the
Italian restaurant had been perchance created for them.  But that last
hypothesis was unthinkable, since one could not place them anywhere
outside those special establishments.  One never met these enigmatical
persons elsewhere.  It was impossible to form a precise idea what
occupations they followed by day and where they went to bed at night.
And he himself had become unplaced.  It would have been impossible for
anybody to guess his occupation.  As to going to bed, there was a doubt
even in his own mind.  Not indeed in regard to his domicile itself, but
very much so in respect of the time when he would be able to return
there.  A pleasurable feeling of independence possessed him when he heard
the glass doors swing to behind his back with a sort of imperfect baffled
thud.  He advanced at once into an immensity of greasy slime and damp
plaster interspersed with lamps, and enveloped, oppressed, penetrated,
choked, and suffocated by the blackness of a wet London night, which is
composed of soot and drops of water.

Brett Street was not very far away.  It branched off, narrow, from the
side of an open triangular space surrounded by dark and mysterious
houses, temples of petty commerce emptied of traders for the night.  Only
a fruitererâ€™s stall at the corner made a violent blaze of light and
colour.  Beyond all was black, and the few people passing in that
direction vanished at one stride beyond the glowing heaps of oranges and
lemons.  No footsteps echoed.  They would never be heard of again.  The
adventurous head of the Special Crimes Department watched these
disappearances from a distance with an interested eye.  He felt
light-hearted, as though he had been ambushed all alone in a jungle many
thousands of miles away from departmental desks and official inkstands.
This joyousness and dispersion of thought before a task of some
importance seems to prove that this world of ours is not such a very
serious affair after all.  For the Assistant Commissioner was not
constitutionally inclined to levity.

