This end, conceived in the astuteness of her uneasy heart, the old woman
had pursued with secrecy and determination.  That was the time when her
daughter Winnie could not help passing a remark to Mr Verloc that “mother
has been spending half-crowns and five shillings almost every day this
last week in cab fares.”  But the remark was not made grudgingly.  Winnie
respected her mother’s infirmities.  She was only a little surprised at
this sudden mania for locomotion.  Mr Verloc, who was sufficiently
magnificent in his way, had grunted the remark impatiently aside as
interfering with his meditations.  These were frequent, deep, and
prolonged; they bore upon a matter more important than five shillings.
Distinctly more important, and beyond all comparison more difficult to
consider in all its aspects with philosophical serenity.

Her object attained in astute secrecy, the heroic old woman had made a
clean breast of it to Mrs Verloc.  Her soul was triumphant and her heart
tremulous.  Inwardly she quaked, because she dreaded and admired the
calm, self-contained character of her daughter Winnie, whose displeasure
was made redoubtable by a diversity of dreadful silences.  But she did
not allow her inward apprehensions to rob her of the advantage of
venerable placidity conferred upon her outward person by her triple chin,
the floating ampleness of her ancient form, and the impotent condition of
her legs.

The shock of the information was so unexpected that Mrs Verloc, against
her usual practice when addressed, interrupted the domestic occupation
she was engaged upon.  It was the dusting of the furniture in the parlour
behind the shop.  She turned her head towards her mother.

“Whatever did you want to do that for?” she exclaimed, in scandalised
astonishment.

The shock must have been severe to make her depart from that distant and
uninquiring acceptance of facts which was her force and her safeguard in
life.

“Weren’t you made comfortable enough here?”

