The “virtue” of this policy consisted in this (Mrs Verloc’s mother was
subtle in her way), that Stevie’s moral claim would be strengthened.  The
poor boy—a good, useful boy, if a little peculiar—had not a sufficient
standing.  He had been taken over with his mother, somewhat in the same
way as the furniture of the Belgravian mansion had been taken over, as if
on the ground of belonging to her exclusively.  What will happen, she
asked herself (for Mrs Verloc’s mother was in a measure imaginative),
when I die?  And when she asked herself that question it was with dread.
It was also terrible to think that she would not then have the means of
knowing what happened to the poor boy.  But by making him over to his
sister, by going thus away, she gave him the advantage of a directly
dependent position.  This was the more subtle sanction of Mrs Verloc’s
mother’s heroism and unscrupulousness.  Her act of abandonment was really
an arrangement for settling her son permanently in life.  Other people
made material sacrifices for such an object, she in that way.  It was the
only way.  Moreover, she would be able to see how it worked.  Ill or well
she would avoid the horrible incertitude on the death-bed.  But it was
hard, hard, cruelly hard.

The cab rattled, jingled, jolted; in fact, the last was quite
extraordinary.  By its disproportionate violence and magnitude it
obliterated every sensation of onward movement; and the effect was of
being shaken in a stationary apparatus like a mediæval device for the
punishment of crime, or some very newfangled invention for the cure of a
sluggish liver.  It was extremely distressing; and the raising of Mrs
Verloc’s mother’s voice sounded like a wail of pain.

“I know, my dear, you’ll come to see me as often as you can spare the
time.  Won’t you?”

“Of course,” answered Winnie shortly, staring straight before her.

And the cab jolted in front of a steamy, greasy shop in a blaze of gas
and in the smell of fried fish.

