And it was with an aspect of hopeless vacancy that he gave up his
intellectual enterprise.

“Not for that?” he mumbled, resigned but surprised.  “Not for that?”  He
had formed for himself an ideal conception of the metropolitan police as
a sort of benevolent institution for the suppression of evil.  The notion
of benevolence especially was very closely associated with his sense of
the power of the men in blue.  He had liked all police constables
tenderly, with a guileless trustfulness.  And he was pained.  He was
irritated, too, by a suspicion of duplicity in the members of the force.
For Stevie was frank and as open as the day himself.  What did they mean
by pretending then?  Unlike his sister, who put her trust in face values,
he wished to go to the bottom of the matter.  He carried on his inquiry
by means of an angry challenge.

“What for are they then, Winn?  What are they for?  Tell me.”

Winnie disliked controversy.  But fearing most a fit of black depression
consequent on Stevie missing his mother very much at first, she did not
altogether decline the discussion.  Guiltless of all irony, she answered
yet in a form which was not perhaps unnatural in the wife of Mr Verloc,
Delegate of the Central Red Committee, personal friend of certain
anarchists, and a votary of social revolution.

“Don’t you know what the police are for, Stevie?  They are there so that
them as have nothing shouldn’t take anything away from them who have.”

She avoided using the verb “to steal,” because it always made her brother
uncomfortable.  For Stevie was delicately honest.  Certain simple
principles had been instilled into him so anxiously (on account of his
“queerness”) that the mere names of certain transgressions filled him
with horror.  He had been always easily impressed by speeches.  He was
impressed and startled now, and his intelligence was very alert.

“What?” he asked at once anxiously.  “Not even if they were hungry?
Mustn’t they?”

The two had paused in their walk.

