Alexander Ossipon, nicknamed the Doctor, was naturally inclined to think
indulgently of his men friends.  He eyed Mrs Verloc hanging on his arm.
Of his women friends he thought in a specially practical way.  Why Mrs
Verloc should exclaim at his knowledge of Mr Verloc’s death, which was no
guess at all, did not disturb him beyond measure.  They often talked like
lunatics.  But he was curious to know how she had been informed.  The
papers could tell her nothing beyond the mere fact: the man blown to
pieces in Greenwich Park not having been identified.  It was
inconceivable on any theory that Verloc should have given her an inkling
of his intention—whatever it was.  This problem interested Comrade
Ossipon immensely.  He stopped short.  They had gone then along the three
sides of Brett Place, and were near the end of Brett Street again.

“How did you first come to hear of it?” he asked in a tone he tried to
render appropriate to the character of the revelations which had been
made to him by the woman at his side.

She shook violently for a while before she answered in a listless voice.

“From the police.  A chief inspector came, Chief Inspector Heat he said
he was.  He showed me—”

Mrs Verloc choked.  “Oh, Tom, they had to gather him up with a shovel.”

Her breast heaved with dry sobs.  In a moment Ossipon found his tongue.

“The police!  Do you mean to say the police came already?  That Chief
Inspector Heat himself actually came to tell you.”

“Yes,” she confirmed in the same listless tone.  “He came just like this.
He came.  I didn’t know.  He showed me a piece of overcoat, and—just like
that.  Do you know this? he says.”

“Heat!  Heat!  And what did he do?”

Mrs Verloc’s head dropped.  “Nothing.  He did nothing.  He went away.
The police were on that man’s side,” she murmured tragically.  “Another
one came too.”

“Another—another inspector, do you mean?” asked Ossipon, in great
excitement, and very much in the tone of a scared child.

