As properly antecedent to the story of the voyage of the MAY-FLOWER as
told by her putative �Log,� albeit written up long after her boned lay
bleaching on some unknown shore, some pertinent account has been given of
the ship herself and of her �consort,� the SPEEDWELL; of the difficulties
attendant on securing them; of the preparations for the voyage; of the
Merchant Adventurers who had large share in sending them to sea; of their
officers and crews; of their passengers and lading; of the troubles that
assailed before they had �shaken off the land,� and of the final
consolidation of the passengers and lading of both ships upon the
MAY-FLOWER, for the belated ocean passage. The wholly negative results of
careful search render it altogether probable that the original journal or
�Log� of the MAY-FLOWER (a misnomer lately applied by the British press,
and unhappily continued in that of the United States, to the recovered
original manuscript of Bradford�s �History of Plimoth Plantation �), if
such journal ever existed, is now hopelessly lost.

So far as known, no previous effort has been made to bring together in
the consecutive relation of such a journal, duly attested and in their
entirety, the ascertained daily happenings of that destiny-freighted
voyage.  Hence, this later volume may perhaps rightly claim to present
--and in part to be, though necessarily imperfect--the sole and a true �Log
of the MAY-FLOWER.�  No effort has been made, however, to reduce the
collated data to the shape and style of the ship�s �Log� of recent times,
whose matter and form are largely prescribed by maritime law. While it is
not possible to give, as the original--if it existed--would have done,
the results of the navigators� observations day by day; the �Lat.� and
�Long.�; the variations of the wind and of the magnetic needle; the
tallies of the �lead� and �log� lines; �the daily run,� etc.--in all
else the record may confidently be assumed to vary little from that
presumably kept, in some form, by Captain Jones, the competent Master of
the Pilgrim bark, and his mates, Masters Clarke and Coppin.

