(i) The demonstration of the fact that Martin and Mullens, of the
MAY-FLOWER colonists, were also Merchant Adventurers, while William
White was probably such.

(j) The demonstration of the fact that �Master Williamson,� the
much-mooted incognito of Bradford�s �Mourt�s Relation� (whose existence
even has often been denied by Pilgrim writers), was none other than the
�ship�s-merchant,� or �purser� of the MAY-FLOWER,--hitherto unknown as
one of her officers, and historically wholly unidentified.

(k) The general description of; and many particulars concerning, the
MAY-FLOWER herself; her accommodations  (especially as to her cabins),
her crew, etc., hitherto unknown.

(1) The demonstration of the fact that the witnesses to the nuncupative
will of William Mullens were two of the MAY-FLOWER�S crew (one being
possibly the ship�s surgeon), thus furnishing the names of two more of
the ship�s company, and the only names--except those of her chief
officers--ever ascertained.

(m) The indication of the strong probability that the entire company of
the Merchant Adventurers signed, on the one part, the charter-party of
the MAY-FLOWER.

(n) An (approximate) list of the ages of the MAY-FLOWER�S passengers and
the respective occupations of the adults.

(o) The demonstration of the fact that no less than five of the Merchant
Adventurers cast in their lots and lives with the Plymouth Pilgrims as
colonists.

(p) The indication of the strong probability that Thomas Goffe, Esquire,
one of the Merchant Adventurers, owned the �MAY-FLOWER� when she was
chartered for the Pilgrim voyage,--as also on her voyages to New England
in 1629 and 1630.

(q) The demonstration of the fact that the Master of the MAY-FLOWER was
Thomas Jones, and that there was an intrigue with Master Jones to land
the Pilgrims at some point north of the 41st parallel of north latitude,
the other parties to which were, not the Dutch, as heretofore claimed,
but none other than Sir Ferdinando Gorges and the Earl of Warwick, chiefs
of the �Council for New England,� in furtherance of a successful scheme
of Gorges to steal the Pilgrim colony from the London Virginia Company,
for the more �northern Plantations� of the conspirators.

