(r) The demonstration of the fact that a second attempt at stealing the
colony--by which John Pierce, one of the Adventurers, endeavored to
possess himself of the demesne and rights of the colonists, and to make
them his tenants--was defeated only by the intervention of the �Council�
and the Crown, the matter being finally settled by compromise and the
transfer of the patent by Pierce (hitherto questioned) to the colony.

(s) The demonstration of the actual relations of the Merchant Adventurers
and the Pilgrim colonists--their respective bodies being associated as
but two partners in an equal copartnership, the interests of the
respective partners being (probably) held upon differing bases--contrary
to the commonly published and accepted view.

(t) The demonstration of the fact that the MAY-FLOWER--contrary to the
popular impression--did not enter Plymouth harbor, as a �lone vessel,�
slowly �feeling her way� by chart and lead-line, but was undoubtedly
piloted to her anchorage--previously �sounded� for her--by the Pilgrim
shallop, which doubtless accompanied her from Cape Cod harbor, on both
her efforts to make this haven, under her own sails.

(u) The indication of the strong probability that Thomas English was
helmsman of the MAY-FLOWER�S shallop (and so savior of her sovereign
company, at the entrance of Plymouth harbor on the stormy night of the
landing on Clarke�s Island), and that hence to him the salvation of the
Pilgrim colony is probably due; and

(v) Many facts not hitherto published, or generally known, as to the
antecedents, relationships, etc., of individual Pilgrims of both the
Leyden and the English contingents, and of certain of the Merchant
Adventurers.


For convenience� sake, both the Old Style and the New Style dates of many
events are annexed to their mention, and double-dating is followed
throughout the narrative journal or �Log� of the Pilgrim ship.

As the Gregorian and other corrections of the calendar are now generally
well understood, and have been so often stated in detail in print, it is
thought sufficient to note here their concrete results as affecting dates
occurring in Pilgrim and later literature.

