Sir Ferdinando Gorges makes the curious misstatement that the Pilgrims
had three ships, and says of them: �Of the three ships (such as their
weak fortunes were able to provide), whereof two proved unserviceable and
so were left behind, the third with great difficulty reached the coast of
New England,� etc.




CHAPTER II

THE MAY-FLOWER�S CONSORT THE SPEEDWELL

The SPEEDWELL was the first vessel procured by the Leyden Pilgrims for
the emigration, and was bought by themselves; as she was the ship of
their historic embarkation at Delfshaven, and that which carried the
originators of the enterprise to Southampton, to join the MAY-FLOWER,
--whose consort she was to be; and as she became a determining factor
in the latter�s belated departure for New England, she may justly claim
mention here as indeed an inseparable �part and parcel� of the
MAY-FLOWER�S voyage.

The name of this vessel of associate historic renown with the MAY-FLOWER
was even longer in finding record in the early literature of the Pilgrim
hegira than that of the larger  It first appeared, so far as discovered,
in 1669--nearly fifty years after her memorable service to the Pilgrims
on the fifth page of Nathaniel Morton�s �New England�s Memorial.�

Davis, in his �Ancient Landmarks of Plymouth,� makes a singular error for
so competent a writer, when he says: �The agents of the company in
England had hired the SPEEDWELL, of sixty tons, and sent her to
Delfthaven, to convey the colonists to Southampton.�  In this, however,
he but follows Mather and the �Modern Universal History,� though both are
notably unreliable; but he lacks their excuse, for they were without his
access to Bradford�s �Historie.�  That the consort-pinnace was neither
�hired� nor �sent to Delfthaven� duly appears.

Bradford states the fact,--that �a smale ship (of some 60 tune), was
bought and fitted in Holand, which was intended to serve to help to
transport them, so to stay in ye countrie and atend ye fishing and such
other affairs as might be for ye good and benefite of ye colonie when
they come ther.�  The statements of Bradford and others indicate that she
was bought and refitted with moneys raised in Holland, but it is not easy
to understand the transaction, in view of the understood terms of the
business compact between the Adventurers and the Planters, as hereinafter
outlined. The Merchant Adventurers--who were organized (but not
incorporated) chiefly through the activity of Thomas Weston, a merchant
of London, to �finance� the Pilgrim undertaking--were bound, as part of
their engagement, to provide the necessary shipping,� etc., for the
voyage.  The �joint-stock or partnership,� as it was called in the
agreement of the Adventurers and Planters, was an equal partnership
between but two parties, the Adventurers, as a body, being one of the
co-partners; the Planter colonists, as a body, the other.  It was a
partnership to run for seven years, to whose capital stock the
first-named partner (the Adventurers) was bound to contribute whatever
moneys, or their equivalents,--some subscriptions were paid in goods,
--were necessary to transport, equip, and maintain the colony and provide
it the means of traffic, etc., for the term named. The second-named
partner (the Planter body) was to furnish the men, women, and children,
--the colonists themselves, and their best endeavors, essential to the
enterprise,--and such further contributions of money or provisions, on
an agreed basis, as might be practicable for them.  At the expiration of
the seven years, all properties of every kind were to be divided into
two equal parts, of which the Adventurers were to take one and the
Planters the other, in full satisfaction of their respective investments
and claims. The Adventurers� half would of course be divided among
themselves, in such proportion as their individual contributions bore to
the sum total invested.  The Planters would divide their half among
their number, according to their respective contributions of persons,
money, or provisions, as per the agreed basis, which was:

