Rev. Edward Everett Hale, in �The Pilgrims� Life in Common,� says:
�Carver, Winslow, Bradford, Brewster, Standish, Fuller, and Allerton.
were the persons of largest means in the Leyden group of the emigrants.
It seems as if their quota of subscription to the common stock were paid
in �provisions� for the voyage and the colony, and that by �provisions�
is meant such articles of food as could be best bought in Holland.�  The
good Doctor is clearly in error, in the above.  Allerton was probably as
�well off� as any of the Leyden contingent, while Francis Cooke and
Degory Priest were probably �better off� than either Brewster or
Standish, who apparently had little of this world�s goods.  Neither is
there any evidence that any considerable amount of �provision� was bought
in Holland.  Quite a large sum of money, which came, apparently, from the
pockets of the Leyden Adventurers (Pickering, Greene, etc.), and some of
the Pilgrims, was requisite to pay for the SPEEDWELL and her refitting,
etc.; but how much came from either is conjectural at best.  But aside
from �Hollands cheese,� �strong-waters� (schnapps), some few things that
Cushman names; and probably a few others, obtained in Holland, most of
the �provisioning,� as repeatedly appears, was done at the English
Southampton.  In fact, after clothing and generally �outfitting�
themselves, it is pretty certain that but few of the Leyden party had
much left. There was evidently an understanding between the partners that
there should be four principal agents charged with the preparations for,
and carrying out of, the enterprise,--Thomas Weston and Christopher
Martin representing the Adventurers and the colonists who were recruited
in England (Martin being made treasurer), while Carver and Cushman acted
for the Leyden company.  John Pierce seems to have been the especial
representative of the Adventurers in the matter of the obtaining of the
Patent from the (London) Virginia Company, and later from the Council for
New England.  Bradford says: �For besides these two formerly mentioned,
sent from Leyden, viz., Master Carver and Robert Cushman, there was one
chosen in England to be joyned with them, to make the provisions for the
Voyage. His name was Master Martin.  He came from Billerike in Essexe;
from which parts came sundry others to go with them; as also from London
and other places, and therefore it was thought meet and convenient by
them in Holand, that these strangers that were to goe with them, should
appointe one thus to be joyned with them; not so much from any great need
of their help as to avoid all susspition, or jealosie, of any
partialitie.�  But neither Weston, Martin, Carver, nor Cushman seems to
have been directly concerned in the purchase of the SPEEDWELL.  The most
probable conjecture concerning it is, that in furtherance of the purpose
of the Leyden leaders, stated by Bradford, that there should be a small
vessel for their service in fishing, traffic, etc., wherever they might
plant the colony, they were permitted by the Adventurers to purchase the
SPEEDWELL for that service, and as a consort, �on general account.�

