Having bought a vessel, it was necessary to fit her for the severe
service in which she was to be employed; to provision her for the voyage,
etc.; and this could be done properly only by experienced hands.  The
Pilgrim leaders at Leyden seem, therefore, as noted, to have sent to
their agents at London for a competent man to take charge of this work,
and were sent a �pilott� (or �mate�), doubtless presumed to be equal to
the task.  Goodwin mistakenly says: �As Spring waned, Thomas Nash went
from Leyden to confer with the agents at London.  He soon returned with a
pilot (doubtless [sic] Robert Coppin), who was to conduct the Continental
party to England.�  This is both wild and remarkable �guessing� for the
usually careful compiler of the �Pilgrim Republic.�  There is no warrant
whatever for this assumption, and everything contra-indicates it,
although two such excellent authorities as Dr. Dexter and Goodwin
coincide--the latter undoubtedly copying the former--concerning Coppin;
both being doubtless in error, as hereafter shown.  Dexter says �My
impression is that Coppin was originally hired to go in the SPEEDWELL,
and that he was the �pilott� whose coming was �a great incouragement� to
the Leyden expectants, in the last of May, or first of June, 1620 [before
May 31, as shown]; that he sailed with them in the SPEEDWELL, but on her
final putting back was transferred to the MAY-FLOWER.�  All the direct
light any one has upon the matter comes from the letter of the Leyden
brethren of May 31 [O.S.], 1620, previously cited, to Carver and Cushman,
and the reply of the latter thereto, of Sunday, June 11, 1620.  The
former as noted, say: �We received diverse letters at the coming of
Master Nash [probably Thomas] and our pilott, which is a great
incouragement unto us .  .  .  and indeed had you not sente him [the
�pilott,� presumably]  many would have been ready to fainte and goe
backe.�  Neither here nor in any other relation is there the faintest
suggestion of Coppin, except as what he was, �the second mate,� or
�pilott,� of the MAY-FLOWER.  It is not reasonable to suppose that, for
so small a craft but just purchased, and with the expedition yet
uncertain, the Leyden leaders or their London agents had by June 11,
employed both a �Master� and a �pilott� for the SPEEDWELL, as must have
been the case if this �pilott� was, as Goodwin so confidently assumes,
�doubtless Robert Coppin.�  For in Robert Cushman�s letter of Sunday,
June 11, as if proposing (now that the larger vessel would be at once
obtained, and would, as he thought, be �ready in fourteen days�) that the
�pilott� sent over to �refit� the SPEEDWELL should be further utilized,
he says: �Let Master Reynolds tarrie there [inferentially, not return
here when his work is done, as we originally arranged] and bring the ship
[the SPEEDWELL], to Southampton.�  The latter service we know he
performed.

