Francis Eaton and
Mrs. ---- Eaton,
Samuel Eaton, an infant son.

Peter Browne.

William Ring.

Richard Clarke.

John Goodman.

Edward Margeson.

Richard Britteridge.


Mrs. Katherine Carver and her family, it is altogether probable, came
over in charge of Howland, who was probably a kinsman, both he and
Deacon Carver coming from Essex in England,--as they could hardly
have been in England with Carver during the time of his exacting
work of preparation.  He, it is quite certain, was not a passenger
on the Speedwell, for Pastor Robinson would hardly have sent him
such a letter as that received by him at Southampton, previously
mentioned (Bradford�s �Historie,� Deane�s ed. p. 63), if he had been
with him at Delfshaven at the �departure,� a few days before.  Nor
if he had handed it to him at Delfshaven, would he have told him in
it, �I have written a large letter to the whole company.�

John Howland was clearly a �secretary� or �steward,� rather than a
�servant,� and a man of standing and influence from the outset.
That he was in Leyden and hence a SPEEDWELL passenger appears
altogether probable, but is not absolutely certain.

Desire Minter (or Minther) was undoubtedly the daughter of Sarah, who,
the �Troth Book� (or �marriage-in-tention� records) for 1616, at the
Stadtbuis of Leyden, shows, was probably wife or widow of one
William Minther--evidently of Pastor Robinson�s congregation--when
she appeared on May 13 as a �voucher� for Elizabeth Claes, who then
pledged herself to Heraut Wilson, a pump-maker, John Carver being
one of Wilson�s �vouchers.�  In 1618 Sarah Minther (then recorded as
the widow of William) reappeared, to plight her troth to Roger
Simons, brick-maker, from Amsterdam.  These two records and the
rarity of the name warrant an inference that Desire Minter (or
Minther) was the daughter of William and Sarah (Willet) Minter (or
Minther), of Robinson�s flock; that her father had died prior to
1618 (perhaps before 1616); that the Carvers were near friends,
perhaps kinsfolk; that her father being dead, her mother, a poor
widow (there were clearly no rich ones in the Leyden congregation),
placed this daughter with the Carvers, and, marrying herself, and
removing to Amsterdam the year before the exodus, was glad to leave
her daughter in so good a home and such hands as Deacon and Mistress
Carver�s.  The record shows that the father and mother of Mrs. Sarah
Minther, Thomas and Alice Willet, the probable grandparents of
Desire Minter, appear as �vouchers� for their daughter at her Leyden
betrothal.  Of them we know nothing further, but it is a reasonable
conjecture that they may have returned to England after the
remarriage of their daughter and her removal to Amsterdam, and the
removal of the Carvers and their granddaughter to America, and that
it was to them that Desire went, when, as Bradford records, �she
returned to her friends in England, and proved not very well and
died there.�

