Under date of July 22, 1619, Carleton says: �One William Brewster,
a Brownist, who has been for some years an inhabitant and printer at
Leyden, but is now within these three weeks removed from thence and
gone back to dwell in London,� etc.

On August 16, 1619 (N.S.), he writes: �I am told William Brewster is
come again for Leyden,� but on the 30th adds: �I have made good
enquiry after William Brewster and am well assured he is not
returned thither, neither is it likely he will; having removed from
thence both his family and goods,� etc.

On September 7, 1619 (N.S.), he writes: �Touching Brewster, I am now
informed that he is on this side the seas [not in London, as before
alleged]; and that he was seen yesterday, at Leyden, but, as yet, is
not there settled,� etc.

On September 13, 1619 (N.S.), he says: �I have used all diligence to
enquire after Brewster; and find he keeps most at Amsterdam; but
being �incerti laris�, he is not yet to be lighted upon.  I
understand he prepares to settle himself at a village called
Leerdorp, not far from Leyden, thinking there to be able to print
prohibited books without discovery, but I shall lay wait for him,
both there and in other places, so as I doubt but either he must
leave this country; or I shall, sooner or later, find him out.�

On September 20, 1619 (N.S.), he says: �I have at length found out
Brewster at Leyden,� etc.  It was a mistake, and Brewster�s partner
(Thomas Brewer), one of the Merchant Adventurers, was arrested
instead.

On September 28, 1619 (N.S.), he states, writing from Amsterdam:
�If he lurk here for fear of apprehension, it will be hard to find
him,� etc.

As late as February 8, 1619/20, there was still a desire and hope
for his arrest, but by June the matter had become to the King--and
all others--something of an old story.  While, as appears by a
letter of Robert Cushman, written in London, in May, 1619, Brewster
was then undoubtedly there, one cannot agree, in the light of the
official correspondence just quoted, with the conclusion of Dr.
Alexander Young (�Chronicles of the Pilgrim Fathers,� vol. i.
p. 462), that �it is probable he [Brewster] did not return to
Leyden, but kept close till the MAYFLOWER sailed.�

