Dr. Samuel Fuller was, as is well known, one of the Leyden chiefs,
connected by blood and marriage with many of the leading families of
Robinson�s congregation.  He was active in the preparations for the
voyage the first signer of the joint-letter of May 31, and doubtless
one of the negotiators for the SPEEDWELL.  His wife and child were
left behind, to follow later as they did.

William Butten, the first of the Pilgrim party to die, was, in all
probability, a student-�servant� of Doctor Fuller at Leyden, and
doubtless embarked with him at Delfshaven.  Bradford calls him
(writing of his death) �Wm. Butten, a youth, servant to Samuel
Fuller.�  Captain Myles Standish and his wife Rose, we know from
Bradford, were with the Pilgrims in Leyden and doubtless shipped
with them.  Arber calls him (�The Story of the Pilgrim Fathers,�
p. 378) a �chief of the Pilgrim Fathers� in the sense of a father
and leader in their Israel; but there is no warrant for this
assumption, though he became their �sword-hand� in the New World.
By some writers, though apparently with insufficient warrant,
Standish has been declared a Roman Catholic.  It does not appear
that he was ever a communicant of the Pilgrim Church. His family,
moreover, was not of the Roman Catholic faith, and all his conduct
in the colony is inconsistent with the idea that he was of that
belief.  Master William White, his wife and son, were of the Leyden
congregation, both husband and wife being among its principal
people, and nearly related to several of the Pilgrim band.  The
marriage of Mr. and Mrs. White is duly recorded in Leyden. William
Holbeck and Edward Thompson, Master White�s two servants, he
probably took with him from Leyden, as his was a family of means and
position, though they might possibly have been procured at
Southampton.  They were apparently passengers in the SPEEDWELL.
Deacon Thomas Blossom and his son were well known as of Pastor
Robinson�s flock at Leyden.  They returned, moreover, to Holland
from Plymouth, England (where they gave up the voyage), via London.
The father went to New Plymouth ten years later, the son dying
before that time.  (See Blossom�s letter to Governor Bradford.
Bradford�s Letter Book, �Plymouth Church Records,� i. 42.) In his
letter dated at Leyden, December 15, 1625, he says: �God hath taken
away my son that was with me in the ship MAYFLOWER when I went back
again.�

