It transpires from Robinson�s letter dated June 14., before quoted (in
which he says: �For shipping, Master Weston, it should seem is set upon
hiring�), that Robinson�s own idea was to purchase, and he seems to have
dominated the rest.  There is perhaps a hint of his reason for this in
the following clause of the same letter, where he writes: �I do not think
Master Pickering [the friend previously named] will ingage, except in the
course of buying [�ships?�--Arber interpolates] as in former letters
specified.�  If he had not then �ingaged� (as Robinson intimates), as an
Adventurer, he surely did later, contrary to the pastor�s prediction, and
the above may have been a bit of special pleading.  Robinson naturally
wished to keep their, affairs, so far as possible, in known and
supposedly friendly hands, and had possibly some assurances that, as a
merchant, Pickering would be willing to invest in a ship for which he
could get a good charter for an American voyage.  He proved rather an
unstable friend.

Robinson is emphatic, in the letter cited, as to the imperative necessity
that shipping should be immediately provided if the enterprise was to be
held together and the funds subscribed were to be secured.  He evidently
considered this the only guaranty of good faith and of an honest
intention to immediately transport the colony over sea, that would be
accepted.  After saying, as already noted, that those behind-hand with
their payments refuse to pay in �till they see shipping provided or a
course taken for it,� he adds, referring to Master Weston: �That he
should not have had either shipping ready before this time, or at least
certain [i.e. definite] means and course, and the same known to us, for
it; or have taken other order otherwise; cannot in [according to] my
conscience be excused.�

Bradford also states that one Master Thomas Weston a merchant of London,
came to Leyden about the same time [apparently while negotiations for
emigration under their auspices were pending with the Dutch, in February
or March, 1620], who was �well acquainted with some of them and a
furtherer of them in their former proceedings....  and persuaded them....
not to meddle with the Dutch,� etc.  This Robinson confirms in his letter
to Carver before referred to, saying: �You know right well we depend on
Master Weston alone,....  and when we had in hand another course with the
Dutchman, broke it off at his motion.�

