On the morning of the 10th of June, 1620, Robert Cushman, one of the
Leyden agents at London, after writing to his associate, Master John
Carver, then at Southampton; and to the Leyden leaders--in reply to
certain censorious letters received by him from both these sources
--although disheartened by the difficulties and prospects before him,
sought Master Weston, and by an urgent appeal so effectively wrought upon
him, that, two hours later, coming to Cushman, he promised �he would not
yet give it [the undertaking] up.�  Cushman�s patience and endurance were
evidently nearly �at the breaking point,� for he says in his letter of
Sunday, June 11, when success had begun to crown his last grand effort:
�And, indeed, the many discouragements I find here [in London] together
with the demurs and retirings there [at Leyden] had made me to say, �I
would give up my accounts to John Carver and at his coming from
Southampton acquaint him fully with all courses [proceedings] and so
leave it quite, with only the poor clothes on my back: But gathering up
myself by further consideration, I resolved yet to make one trial more,�
etc. It was this �one trial more� which meant so much to the Pilgrims;
to the cause of Religion; to America; and to Humanity.  It will rank with
the last heroic and successful efforts of Robert the Bruce and others,
which have become historic. The effect of Cushman�s appeal upon Weston
cannot be doubted.  It not only apparently influenced him at the time,
but, after reflection and the lapse of hours, it brought him to his
associate to promise further loyalty, and, what was much better, to act.
The real animus of Weston�s backwardness, it is quite probable, lay in
the designs of Gorges, which were probably not yet fully matured, or, if
so, involved delay as an essential part. �And so,� Cushman states,
�advising together, we resolved to hire a ship.�  They evidently found one
that afternoon, �of sixty last� (120 tons) which was called �a fine
ship,� and which they �took liking of [Old English for trial (Dryden),
equivalent to refusal] till Monday.�  The same afternoon they �hired
another pilot .  .  .  one Master Clarke.�--of whom further.

