We are therefore able to fix, nearly to an hour, the �turning of the
tide� in the affairs of the Pilgrim movement to America.

It is also altogether probable that the Pilgrims and humanity at large
are still further (indirectly) indebted to Cushman�s �one more trial� and
resultant Saturday afternoon�s work, for the MAY-FLOWER (though not found
that day), and her able commander Jones, who, whatever his faults, safely
brought the Pilgrims through stormy seas to their �promised land.�

Obligations of considerable and rapidly cumulative cost had now been
incurred, making it imperative to go forward to embarkation with all
speed, and primarily, to secure the requisite larger ship.  Evidently
Weston and Cushman believed they had found one that would serve, when on
Saturday, they �took liking,� as we have seen, of the �fine ship� of 120
tons, �till Monday.� No less able authorities than Charles Deane, Goodwin,
and Brown, with others, have mistakenly concluded that this ship was the
MAY-FLOWER, and have so stated in terms.  As editor of Bradford�s history
�Of Plimoth Plantation,� Mr. Deane (in a footnote to the letter of
Cushman written Sunday, June 11), after quoting the remark, �But it is a
fine ship,� mistakenly adds, �The renowned MAYFLOWER.--Ed.,� thus
committing himself to the common error in this regard.  John Brown, in
his �Pilgrim Fathers of New England,�  confuses the vessels, stating
that, �when all was ready for the start, a pilot came over to conduct the
emigrants to England, bringing also a letter from Cushman announcing that
the MAYFLOWER, a vessel of one hundred and eighty tons, Thomas Jones,
Master, would start from London to Southampton in a week or two,� etc.
As we have seen, these statements are out of their relation.  No pilot
went for that purpose and none carried such a letter (certainly none from
Cushman), as alleged.  Cushman�s letter, sent as we know by John Turner,
announced the finding of an entirely different vessel, which was neither
of 180 tons burden, nor had any relation to the MAY-FLOWER or her future
historic freight.  Neither was there in his letter any time of starting
mentioned, or of the port of Southampton as the destination of any vessel
to go from London, or of Jones as captain. Such loose statements are the
bane of history.  Goodwin, usually so accurate, stumbles unaccountably in
this matter--which has been so strangely misleading to other competent
men--and makes the sadly perverted statement that, �In June, John Turner
was sent, and he soon returned with a petulant (sic) letter from Cushman,
which, however, announced that the ship MAYFLOWER had been selected and
in two weeks would probably leave London for Southampton.� He adds, with
inexcusable carelessness in the presence of the words �sixty last� (which
his dictionary would have told him, at a glance, was 120 tons), that:
�This vessel (Thomas Jones, master) was rated at a hundred and eighty
tons .  .  .  . Yet she was called a fine ship,� etc.  It is evident
that, like Brown, he confused the two vessels, with Cushman�s letter
before his eyes, from failure to compute the �sixty last.�  He moreover
quotes Cushman incorrectly.  The great disparity in size, however, should
alone render this confusion impossible, and Cushman is clear as to the
tonnage (�sixty last�), regretting that the ship found is not larger,
while Bradford and all other chroniclers agree that the MAY-FLOWER was of
�9 score� tons burden.

