There is just the shadow of a doubt thrown upon the accuracy of Smith�s
statement as to the non-corporate status of the Adventurers, by the loose
and unwieldy features which must thereby attach to their business
transactions, to which it seems probable that merchants like Weston,
Andrews, Beauchamp, Shirley, Pickering, Goffe, and others would object,
unless the law at that time expressly limited and defined the rights and
liabilities of members in such voluntary associations.  Neither evidences
of (primary) incorporation, or of such legal limitation, have, however,
rewarded diligent search.  There was evidently some more definite and
corporate form of ownership in the properties and values of the
Adventurers, arrived at later.  A considerable reduction in the number of
proprietors was effected before 1624--in most cases by the purchase of
the interests of certain ones by their associates--for we find their
holdings spoken of in that year as �sixteenths,� and these shares to have
sometimes been attached for their owners� debts.  A letter of Shirley,
Brewer et als., to Bradford, Allerton et als., dated London, April 7,
1624, says: �If it had not been apparently sold, Mr. Beauchamp, who is of
the company also, unto whom he [Weston] oweth a great deal more, had long
ago attached it (as he did other�s 16ths),� etc.  It is exceedingly
difficult to reconcile these unquestionable facts with the equal
certainty that, at the �Composition� of the Adventurers with the Planters
in 1626, there were forty-two who signed as of the Adventurers.  The
weight, however, of evidence and of probability must be held to support
the conclusion that in June, 1620, the organization was voluntary, and
that the charter-party of the MAY-FLOWER was signed--� on the one part
�--by each of the enrolled Adventurers engaged in the Leyden
congregation�s colonization scheme.  Goodwin� alone pretends to any
certain knowledge of the matter, but although a veracious usually
reliable writer, he is not infallible, as already shown, and could hardly
have had access to the original documents,--which alone, in this case,
could be relied on to prove his assertion that �Shortly articles were
signed by both parties, Weston acting for the Adventurers.�  Not a
particle of confirmatory evidence has anywhere been found in Pilgrim or
contemporaneous literature to warrant this statement, after exhaustive
search, and it must hence, until sustained by proof, be regarded as a
personal inference rather than a verity.  If the facts were as appears,
they permit the hope that a document of so much prima facie importance
may have escaped destruction, and will yet be found among the private
papers of some of the last survivors of the Adventurers, though with the
acquisition of all their interests by the Pilgrim leaders such documents
would seem, of right, to have become the property of the purchasers, and
to have been transferred to the Plymouth planters.

