The MAY-FLOWER�S galley, with its primitive conditions for cooking,
existed rather as a place for the preparation of food and the keeping of
utensils, than for the use of fire.  The arrangements for the latter were
exceedingly crude, and were limited to the open �hearth-box� filled with
sand, the chief cooking appliance being the tripod-kettle of the early
navigators: This might indeed be set up in any part of the ship where the
�sand-hearth� could also go, and the smoke be cared for.  It not
infrequently found space in the fore castle, between decks, and, when
fine weather prevailed, upon the open deck, as in the open caravels of
Columbus, a hundred years before.  The bake-kettle and the frying-pan
held only less important places than the kettle for boiling. It must have
been rather a burst of the imagination that led Mrs. Austin, in �Standish
of Standish,� to make Peter Browne remind poor half-frozen Goodman--whom
he is urging to make an effort to reach home, when they had been lost,
but had got in sight of the MAY-FLOWER In the harbor--of �the good fires
aboard of her.�  Moreover, on January 22, when Goodman was lost, the
company had occupied their �common-house� on shore. Her ordnance
doubtless comprised several heavy guns (as such were then reckoned),
mounted on the spar-deck amid ships, with lighter guns astern and on.
the rail, and a piece of longer range and larger calibre upon the
forecastle.  Such was the general disposal of ordnance upon merchant
vessels of her size in that day, when an armament was a �sine qua non�.
Governor Winslow in his �Hypocrisie Unmasked,� 1646 (p. 91), says, in
writing of the departure of the Pilgrims from Delfshaven, upon the
SPEEDWELL: �The wind being fair we gave them a volley of small shot and
three pieces of ordnance,� by which it seems that the SPEEDWELL, of only
sixty tons, mounted at least �three pieces of ordnance� as, from the form
of expression, there seem to have been �three pieces,� rather than three
discharges of the same piece.

