Later in the century we find a MAY-FLOWER of Ipswich, and another of
Newcastle in 1618; a MAY-FLOWER of York in 1621; a MAY-FLOWER of
Scarborough in 1630, Robert Hadock the master; a MAY-FLOWER of Sandwich
the same year, John Oliver the master; a MAY-FLOWER of Dover, 1633,
Walter Finnis, master, in which two sons of the Earl of Berkshire crossed
to Calais. �Which of these was the vessell which carried over the
precious [Pilgrim] freight cannot perhaps be told [apparently neither,
unless perhaps the MAY-FLOWER of Yarmouth of 1593, in which case her
tonnage is incorrectly given], but we learn from Mr. Sherley�s letter to
Governor Bradford� that the same vessel was employed in 1629 in passing
between the two countries, a company of the church at Leyden, who had
joined in the first emigration, intending to pass in it to America; and
in the same author we find that the vessel arrived in the harbour of
Charlestown [N. E.] on July 1, 1630.  There was a MAY-FLOWER which, in
1648, gained an unenviable notoriety as a slaver.  But this was not the
MAY-FLOWER which had carried over the first settlers, it being a vessel
Of 350 tons, while the genuine MAY-FLOWER was of only 180 tons.�  Of the
first of her two known visits, after her voyage with the Pilgrim company
from Leyden, Goodwin says: �In August, 1629, the renowned MAY-FLOWER came
from England to Salem under Plymouth�s old friend [William] Peirce, and
in her came thirty-five Leyden people, on their way to Plymouth.�  The
number has been in dispute, but the large cost of bringing them, over
L500, would suggest that their families must have also come, as has been
alleged, but for the following from Governor Bradford�s Letter Book:
�These persons,� he says, �were in all thirty-five, which came at this
time unto us from Leyden, whose charge out of Holland into England, and
in England till the ship was ready, and then their transportation hither,
came to a great deal of money, for besides victuals and other expenses,
they were all newly apparelled.�  Shirley, one of the Adventurers,
writing to Governor Bradford in 1629, says: �Here are now many of your
friends from Leyden coming over.  With them also we have sent some
servants, or in the ship that went lately (I think called the TALBOT),
and this that these come in is the MAY-FLOWER.�  All that Higginson�s
journal tells of her, as noted, is, that �she was of Yarmouth;� was
commanded by William Peirce, and carried provisions and passengers, but
the fact that she was under command of Captain Peirce of itself tells
much.  On her next trip the MAY-FLOWER sailed from Southampton, in May,
1630, as part of Winthrop�s fleet, and arrived at Charlestown July 1.
She was, on this voyage, under command of a new master (perhaps a Captain
Weatherby), Captain Peirce having, at this time, command of the ship
LYON, apparently in the service of Plymouth Colony.  A vessel of this
name [MAY-FLOWER] was sailing between England and Boston in 1656.  Young
says: �The MAY-FLOWER is a ship of renown in the history of the
colonization of New England.  She was one of the five vessels which, in
1629, conveyed Higginson�s company to Salem, and also one of the fleet
which, in 1630, brought over his colony to Massachusetts Bay.�

