October 6, 1652, �Thomas Webber, Mr. of the good shipp called the
MAYFLOWER of the burden of Two hundred Tuns or there abouts .  .  .  .
Rideing at Ancor in the Harber of Boston,� sold one-sixteenth of the ship
�for good & valluable Consideracons to Mr. John Pinchon of Springfield
Mrchant.�  The next day, October 7, 1652, the same �Thomas Webber, Mr, of
the good Shipp called the MAY FLOWER of Boston in New England now bound
for the barbadoes and thence to London,� acknowledges an indebtedness to
Theodore Atkinson, a wealthy �hatter, felt-maker,� and merchant of
Boston, and the same day (October 7, 1652), the said �Thomas Webber, Mr.
of the good shipp called the MAY FLOWER of the burthen of Two hundred
tuns or thereabouts,� sold �unto Theodore Atkinson felt-maker
one-sixteenth part as well of said Shipp as of all & singular her masts
Sails Sail-yards Ancors Cables Ropes Cords Gunns Gunpowder Shott
Artillery Tackle Munition apparrell boate skiffe and furniture to the
same belonging.�  It is of course possible that this was the historic
ship, though, if so, reappearing twenty two years after her last known
voyage to New England.  If the same, she was apparently under both new
master and owner.  From the facts that she is called �of Boston in New
England� and was trading between that port, �the Barbadoes� and London,
it is not impossible that she may have been built at Boston--a sort of
namesake descendant of the historic ship--and was that MAY-FLOWER
mentioned as belonging, in 1657, to Mr. Samuel Vassall; as he had large
interests alike in Boston, Barbadoes, and London.  Masters of vessels
were often empowered to sell their ships or shares in them. Although we
know not where her keel was laid, by what master she was built, or where
she laid her timbers when her work was done, by virtue of her grand
service to humanity, her fame is secure, and her name written among the
few, the immortal names that were not born to die.




CHAPTER V

THE OFFICERS AND CREW OF THE MAYFLOWER

