No one knew better than the shrewd Gorges the value of such a colony as
that of the Leyden brethren would be, to plant, populate, and develop his
Company�s great demesne.  None were more facile than himself and the
buccaneering Earl of Warwick, to plan and execute the bold, but--as it
proved--easy coup, by which the Pilgrim colony was to be stolen bodily;
for the benefit of the �Second Virginia Company� and its successor,
�the Council for New England,� from the �First (or London) Company,�
under whose patent (to John Pierce) and patronage they sailed.  They
apparently did not take their patent with them,--it would have been
worthless if they had,--and they were destined to have no small trouble
with Pierce, before they were established in their rights under the new
patent granted him (in the interest of the Adventurers and themselves),
by the �Council for New England.�  Master John Wincob�s early and silent
withdrawal from his apparently active connection with the Pilgrim
movement, and the evident cancellation of the first patent issued to him
in its interest, by the (London) Virginia Company, have never been
satisfactorily explained.  Wincob (or Wincop), we are told, �was a
religious Gentleman, then belonging to the household of the Countess of
Lincoln, who intended to go with them [the Pilgrims] but God so disposed
as he never went, nor they ever made use of this Patent, which had cost
them so much labor and charge.�  Wincob, it appears by the minutes of the
(London) Virginia Company of Wednesday, May 26/June 5, 1619, was
commended to the Company, for the patent he sought, by the fourth Earl of
Lincoln, and it was doubtless through his influence that it was granted
and sealed, June 9/19, 1619.  But while Wincob was a member of the
household of the Dowager Countess of Lincoln, mother of the fourth Earl
of Lincoln; John, the eldest son of Sir Ferdinando Gorges, had married
the Earl�s daughter (sister ?), and hence Gorges stood in a much nearer
relation to the Earl than did his mother�s friend and dependant (as
Wincob evidently was), as well as on a much more equal social footing.
By the minutes of the (London) Virginia Company of Wednesday, February 2/
12, 1619/20, it appears that a patent was �allowed and sealed to John
Pierce and his associates, heirs and assigns,� for practically the same
territory for which the patent to Wincob had been given but eight months
before.  No explanation was offered, and none appears of record, but the
logical conclusion is, that the first patent had been cancelled, that
Master Wincob�s personal interest in the Pilgrim exodus had ceased, and
that the Lincoln patronage had been withdrawn.  It is a rational
conjecture that Sir Ferdinando Gorges, through the relationship he
sustained to the Earl, procured the withdrawal of Wincob and his patent,
knowing that the success of his (Gorges�s) plot would render the Wincob
patent worthless, and that the theft of the colony, in his own interest,
would be likely to breed �unpleasantness� between himself and Wincob�s
sponsors and friends among the Adventurers, many of whom were friends of
the Earl of Lincoln.

