The Earl of Warwick, the man of highest social and political rank in the
First (or London) Virginia Company, was, at about the same time, induced
by Gorges to abandon his (the London) Company and unite with himself in
securing from the Crown the charter of the �Council of Affairs for New
England.�  The only inducements he could offer for the change must
apparently have resided in the promised large results of plottings
disclosed by him (Gorges), but he needed the influential and unscrupulous
Earl for the promotion of his schemes, and won him, by some means, to an
active partnership, which was doubtless congenial to both. The �fine
Italian hand� of Sir Ferdinando hence appears at every stage, and in
every phase, of the Leyden movement, from the mission of Weston to
Holland, to the landing at Cape Cod, and every movement clearly indicates
the crafty cunning, the skilful and brilliant manipulation, and the
dogged determination of the man.

That Weston was a most pliant and efficient tool in the hands of Gorges,
�from start to finish� of this undertaking, is certainly apparent.
Whether he was, from the outset, made fully aware of the sinister designs
of the chief conspirator, and a party to them, admits of some doubt,
though the conviction strengthens with study, that he was, from the
beginning, �particeps criminis�.  If he was ever single-minded for the
welfare of the Leyden brethren and the Adventurers, it must have been for
a very brief time at the inception of the enterprise; and circumstances
seem to forbid crediting him with honesty of purpose, even then.  The
weight of evidence indicates that he both knew, and was fully enlisted
in, the entire plot of Gorges from the outset.  In all its early stages
he was its most efficient promoter, and seems to have given ample proof
of his compliant zeal in its execution. His visit to the Leyden brethren
in Holland was, apparently, wholly instigated by Gorges, as the latter
complacently claims and collateral evidence proves.  In his endeavor to
induce the leaders to �break off with the Dutch,� their pending
negotiations for settlement at �Hudson�s River,� he evidently made
capital of, and traded upon, his former kindness to some of them when
they were in straits,--a most contemptible thing in itself, yet
characteristic of the man.  He led the Pilgrims to �break off� their
dealings with the Dutch by the largest and most positive promises of
greater advantages through him, few of which he ever voluntarily kept (as
we see by John Robinson�s sharp arraignment of him), his whole object
being apparently to get the Leyden party into his control and that of his
friends,--the most subtle and able of whom was Gorges.  Bradford recites
that Weston not only urged the Leyden leaders �not to meddle with ye
Dutch,� but also,--�not too much to depend on ye Virginia [London]
Company,� but to rely on himself and his friends.  This strongly suggests
active cooperation with Gorges, on Weston�s part, at the outset, with the
intent (if he could win them by any means, from allegiance to the First
(London) Virginia Company), to lead the Leyden party, if possible, into
Gorges�s hands and under the control and patronage of the Second (or
Plymouth) Virginia Company.  Whatever the date may have been, at which
(as Bradford states) the Leyden people �heard, both by Mr. Weston and
others, yt sundrie Honble: Lords had obtained a large grante from ye king
for ye more northerly parts of that countrie, derived out of ye Virginia
patents, and wholly secluded from theire Governmente, and to be called by
another name, viz. New England, unto which Mr. Weston and the chiefe of
them begane to incline;� Bradford leaves us in no doubt as to Weston�s
attitude toward the matter itself.  It is certain that the governor,
writing from memory, long afterward, fixed the time at which the Honble:
Lords had obtained �their large grante� much earlier than it could
possibly have occurred, as we know the exact date of the patent for the,
�Council for New England,� and that the order for its issue was not given
till just as the Pilgrims left Leyden; so that they could not have known
of the actual �grante� till they reached Southampton.  The essential
fact, stated on this best of authority, is, that �Mr. Weston and the
chiefe of them [their sponsors, i.e. Weston and Lord Warwick, both in
league with Gorges] begane to incline to Gorges�s new Council for New
England.�  Such an attitude (evidently taken insidiously) meant, on
Weston�s part, of necessity, no less than treachery to his associates of
the Adventurers; to the (London) Virginia Company, and to the Leyden
company and their allied English colonists, in the interest of Sir
Ferdinando Gorges and his schemes and of the new �Council� that Gorges
was organizing.  Weston�s refusal to advance �a penny� to clear the
departing Pilgrims from their port charges at Southampton; his almost
immediate severance of connection with both the colonists and the
Adventurers; and his early association with Gorges,--in open and
disgraceful violation of all the formers� rights in New England,--to say
nothing of his exhibition of a malevolence rarely exercised except toward
those one has deeply wronged, all point to a complete and positive
surrender of himself and his energies to the plot of Gorges, as a full
participant, from its inception. In his review of the Anniversary Address
of Hon. Charles Francis Adams (of July 4, 1892, at Quincy), Daniel W.
Baker, Esq., of Boston, says: �The Pilgrim Fathers were influenced in
their decision to come to New England by Weston, who, if not the agent of
Gorges in this particular matter, was such in other matters and held
intimate relations with him.�

