Let us see upon what the assumption of this ready and certain accord on
the part of Captain Jones rests.  Rev. Dr. Neill, whose thorough study of
the records of the Virginia Companies, and of the East India Company
Calendars and collateral data, entitles him to speak with authority,
recites that, �In 1617, Capt. Thomas Jones (sometimes spelled Joanes) had
been sent to the East Indies in command of the ship LION by the Earl of
Warwick (then Sir Robt. Rich), under a letter of protection from the Duke
of Savoy, a foreign prince, ostensibly �to take pirates,� which [pretext]
had grown, as Sir Thomas Roe (the English ambassador with the Great
Mogul) states, �to be a common pretence for becoming pirate.��  Caught by
the famous Captain Martin Pring, in full pursuit of the junk of the Queen
Mother of the Great Mogul, Jones was attacked, his ship fired in the
fight, and burned,--with some of his crew,--and he was sent a prisoner to
England in the ship BULL, arriving in the Thames, January 1, 1618/19.  No
action seems to have been taken against him for his offences, and
presumably his employer, Sir Robert, the coming Earl, obtained his
liberty on one pretext or another.  On January 19, however, complaint was
made against Captain Jones, �late of the LION,� by the East India
Company, �for hiring divers men to serve the King of Denmark in the East
Indies.�  A few days after his arrest for �hiring away the Company�s men,
Lord Warwick got him off� on the claim that he had employed him
�to go to Virginia with cattle.�  From the �Transactions� of the Second
Virginia Company, of which--as we have seen--Sir Ferdinando Gorges was
the leading spirit, it appears that on �February 2, 1619/20, a commission
was allowed Captain Thomas Jones of the FALCON, a ship of 150 tons� [he
having been lately released from arrest by the Earl of Warwick�s
intercession], and that �before the close of the month, he sailed with
cattle for Virginia,� as previously noted.  Dr. Neill, than whom there
can be no better authority, was himself satisfied, and unequivocally
states, that �Thomas Jones, Captain of the MAY-FLOWER, was without doubt
the old servant of Lord Warwick in the East Indies.�  Having done Sir
Robert Rich�s (the Earl of Warwick�s) �dirty work� for years, and having
on all occasions been saved from harm by his noble patron (even when
piracy and similar practices had involved him in the meshes of the law),
it would be but a trifling matter, at the request of such powerful
friends as the Earl and Sir Ferdinando Gorges, to steal the Pilgrim
Colony from the London Virginia Company, and hand it over bodily to the
�Council for New England,�--the successor of the Second (Plymouth)
Virginia Company,--in which their interests were vested, Warwick having,
significantly, transferred his membership from the London Company to the
new �Council for New England,� as it was commonly called.  Neill states,
and there is abundant proof, that �the Earl of Warwick and Gorges were in
sympathy,� and were active coadjutors, while it is self-evident that both
would be anxious to accomplish the permanent settlement of the �Northern
Plantations� held by their Company.  That they would hesitate to utilize
so excellent an opportunity to secure so very desirable a colony, by any
means available, our knowledge of the men and their records makes it
impossible to believe,--while nothing could apparently have been easier
of accomplishment.  It will readily be understood that if the
conspirators were these men,--upon whose grace the Pilgrims must depend
for permission to remain upon the territory to which they had been
inveigled, or even for permission to depart from it, without spoliation,
--men whose influence with the King (no friend to the Pilgrims) was
sufficient to make both of them, in the very month of the Pilgrims�
landing, �governors� of �The Council for New England,� under whose
authority the Planters must remain,--the latter were not likely to voice
their suspicions of the trick played upon them, if they discovered it,
or openly to resent it, when known. Dr. Dexter, in commenting on the
remark of Bradford, �We made Master Jones our leader, for we thought it
best herein to gratifie his kindness & forwardness,� sensibly says,
�This proves nothing either way, in regard to the charge which Secretary
Morton makes of treachery against Jones, in landing the company so far
north, because, if that were true, it was not known to any of the company
for years afterward, and of course could not now [at that time] impair
their feelings of confidence in, or kindness towards, him.  Moreover,
the phraseology, �we thought it best to gratifie,� suggests rather
considerations of policy than cordial desire, and their acquaintance,
too, with the man was still young. There is, however, no evidence that
Jones�s duplicity was suspected till long afterward,  though his
character was fully recognized.  Gorges himself furnishes, in his
writings, the strongest confirmation we have of the already apparent
fact, that he was himself the prime conspirator.  He says, in his own
�Narration,� �It was referred [evidently by himself] to their [the London
Virginia Company�s] consideration, how necessary it was that means might
be used to draw unto those their enterprises, some of those families that
had retired themselves into Holland for scruple of conscience, giving
them such freedom and liberty as might stand with their liking.�  When
have we ever found Sir Ferdinando Gorges thus solicitous for the success
of the rival Virginia Company?  Why, if he so esteemed the Leyden people
as excellent colonists, did he not endeavor to secure them himself
directly, for his own languishing company?  Certainly the �scruple of
conscience� of the Leyden brethren did not hinder him, for he found it no
bar, though of the Established Church himself, to giving them instantly
all and more than was asked in their behalf, as soon as he had them upon
his territory and they had applied for a patent.  He well knew that it
would be matter of some expense and difficulty to bring the Leyden
congregation into agreement to go to either of the Virginia grants, and
he doubtless, and with good reason, feared that his repute and the
character and reputation of his own Company, with its past history of
failure, convict settlers, and loose living, would be repellent to these
people of �conscience.�  If they could be brought to the �going-point,�
by men more of their ilk, like Sir Edwin Sandys, Weston, and others, it
would then be time to see if he could not pluck the ripe fruit for
himself,--as he seems to have done.

