�This advice,� he says, �being hearkened unto, there were [those] that
undertook the putting it in practice [Weston and others] and it was
accordingly brought to effect,� etc. Then, reciting (erroneously) the
difficulties with the SPEEDWELL, etc., he records the MAY-FLOWER�S
arrival at Cape Cod, saying, �The .  .  .  ship with great difficulty
reached the coast of New England.�  He then gives a glowing, though
absurd, account of the attractions the planters found--in midwinter
--especially naming the hospitable reception of the Indians, despite the
fact of the savage attack made upon them by the Nausets at Cape Cod, and
adds: �After they had well considered the state of their affairs and
found that the authority they had from the London Company of Virginia,
could not warrant their abode in that place,� which �they found so
prosperous and pleasing [sic] they hastened away their ship, with orders
to their Solicitor to deal with me to be a means they might have a grant
from the Council of New England Affairs, to settle in the place, which
was accordingly performed to their particular satisfaction and good
content of them all.�  One can readily imagine the crafty smile with
which Sir Ferdinando thus guilelessly recorded the complete success of
his plot.  It is of interest to note how like a needle to the pole the
grand conspirator�s mind flies to the fact which most appeals to him
--that they find �that the authority they had .  .  .  could not warrant
their abode in that place.�  It is of like interest to observe that in
that place which he called �pleasant and prosperous� one half their own
and of the ship�s company had died before they hastened the ship away,
and they had endured trial, hardships, and sorrows untellable,--although
from pluck and principle they would not abandon it.  He tells us �they
hastened away their ship,� and implies that it was for the chief purpose
of obtaining through him a grant of the land they occupied.  While we
know that the ship did not return till the following April,--and then at
her Captain�s rather than the Pilgrims� pleasure,--it is evident that
Gorges could think of events only as incident to his designs and from his
point of view.  His plot had succeeded.  He had the �Holland families�
upon his soil, and his willing imagination converted their sober and
deliberate action into the eager haste with which he had planned that
they should fly to him for the patent, which his cunning had--as he
purposed--rendered necessary.  Of course their request �was performed,�
and so readily and delightedly that, recognizing John Pierce as their
mouthpiece and the plantation as �Mr. Pierces Plantation,� Sir Ferdinando
and his associates--the �Council for New England,� including his
joint-conspirator, the Earl of Warwick--gave Pierce unhesitatingly
whatever he asked. The Hon. William T. Davis, who alone among Pilgrim
historians (except Dr. Neill, whom he follows) seems to have suspected
the hand of Gorges in the treachery of Captain Jones, here demonstrated,
has suggested that: �Whether Gorges might not have influenced Pierce, in
whose name the patent of the Pilgrims had been issued--and whether both
together might not have seduced Capt. Jones, are further considerations
to be weighed, in solving the problem of a deviation from the intended
voyage of the MAYFLOWER.�  Although not aware of these suggestions,
either of Mr. Davis or of Dr. Neill, till his own labors had satisfied
him of Gorges�s guilt, and his conclusions were formed, the author
cheerfully recognizes the priority to his own demonstration, of the
suggestions of both these gentlemen.  No thing appears of record,
however, to indicate that John Pierce was in any way a party to Gorges�s
plot.  On the contrary, as his interest was wholly allied to his patent,
which Gorges�s scheme would render of little value to his associate
Adventurers and himself he would naturally have been, unless heavily
bribed to duplicity beyond his expectations from their intended venture,
the last man to whom to disclose such a conspiracy.  Neither was he
necessary in any way to the success of the scheme.  He did not hire
either the ship or her master; he does not appear to have had any
Pilgrim relations to Captain Jones, and certainly could have had no such
influence with him as Gorges could himself command, through Warwick and
his own ability--from his position at the head of the �New England
Council�--to reward the service he required.  That Gorges was able
himself to exert all the influence requisite to secure Jones�s
cooperation, without the aid of Pierce, who probably could have given
none, is evident.  Mr. Davis�s suggestion, while pertinent and potential
as to Gorges, is clearly wide of the mark as to Pierce.  He represented
the Adventurers in the matter of patents only, but Weston was in
authority as to the pivotal matter of shipping.  An evidently hasty
footnote of Dr. Neill, appended to the �Memorial� offered by him to the
Congress of the United States, in 1868, seems to have been the only
authority of Mr. William T. Davis for the foregoing suggestion as to the
complicity of Pierce in the treachery of Captain Jones, except the bare
suspicion, already alluded to, in the records of the London Company.
Neill says: �Captain Jones, the navigator of the MAY-FLOWER, and John
Pierce, probably had arranged as to destination without the knowledge of
the passengers.�  While of course this is not impossible, there is, as
stated, absolutely nothing to indicate any knowledge, participation, or
need of Pierce in the matter, and of course the fewer there were in the
secret the better.

