Unobservant that John Pierce was acting upon the old adage, �second thief
best owner,� when he asked, a little later, even so extraordinary a thing
as that the �Council for New England� would exchange the patent they had
so promptly granted him (as representing his associates, the Adventurers
and Planters) for a �deed-pole,� or title in fee, to himself alone, they
instantly complied, and thus unwittingly enabled him also to steal the
colony, and its demesne beside. It is evident, from the very servile
letter of Robert Cushman to John Pierce (written while the former was at
New Plymouth, in November-December, 1621, on behalf of the MAY-FLOWER
Adventurers), that up to that time at least, the Pilgrims had no
suspicion of the trick which had been played upon them.  For, while too
adroit recklessly to open a quarrel with those who could--if they chose
--destroy them, the Pilgrims were far too high-minded to stoop to flattery
and dissimulation (especially with any one known to have been guilty of
treachery toward them), or to permit any one to do so in their stead.
In the letter referred to, Cush man acknowledges in the name of the
colonists the �bounty and grace of the President and Council of the
Affairs of New England [Gorges, Warwick, et als.] for their allowance and
approbation� of the �free possession and enjoyment� of the territory and
rights so promptly granted Pierce by the Council, in the colonists�
interest, upon application.  If the degree of promptness with which the
wily Gorges and his associates granted the petition of Pierce, in the
colony�s behalf for authority to occupy the domain to which Gorges�s
henchman Jones had so treacherously conveyed them, was at all
proportionate to the fulsome and lavish acknowledgments of Cushman,
there must have been such eagerness of compliance as to provoke general
suspicion at the Council table. Gorges and Warwick must have �grinned
horribly behind their hands� upon receipt of the honest thanks of these
honest planters and the pious benedictions of their scribe, knowing
themselves guilty of detestable conspiracy and fraud, which had
frustrated an honest purpose, filched the results of others� labors, and
had �done to death� good men and women not a few.  Winslow, in
�Hypocrisie Unmasked,� says: �We met with many dangers and the mariners�
put back into the harbor of the Cape.�  The original intent of the
Pilgrims to go to the neighborhood of the Hudson is unmistakable; that
this intention was still clear on the morning of November 10 (not 9th)
--after they had �made the land�--has been plainly shown; that there was
no need of so �standing in with the land� as to become entangled in the
�rips� and �shoals� off what is now known as Monomoy (in an effort to
pass around the Cape to the southward, when there was plenty of open
water to port), is clear and certain; that the dangers and difficulties
were magnified by Jones, and the abandonment of the effort was urged and
practically made by him, is also evident from Winslow�s language above
noted,--�and the mariners put back,� etc.  No indication of the old-time
consultations with the chief men appears here as to the matter of the
return.  Their advice was not desired. �The mariners put back� on their
own responsibility.

