Of JOHN CLARKE, the first mate of the MAY-FLOWER, we have already learned
that he had been in the employ of the First (or London) Virginia Company,
and had but just returned (in June, 1620) from a voyage to Virginia with
Captain Jones in the FALCON, when found and employed by Weston and
Cushman for the Pilgrim ship.  Dr. Neill quotes from the �Minutes of the
London Virginia Company,� of Wednesday, February 13/23, 1621/2, the
following; which embodies considerable information concerning him:--

�February 13th, 1621.  Master Deputy acquainted the Court, that one Master
John Clarke being taken from Virginia long since [Arber interpolates,
�in 1612�] by a Spanish ship that came to discover the Plantation, that
forasmuch as he hath since that time done the Company presumably the
First (or London) Virginia Company good service in many voyages to
Virginia; and, of late [1619] went into Ireland, for the transportation of
cattle to Virginia; he was a humble suitor to this Court that he might be
a Free brother of the Company, and have some shares of land bestowed upon
him.�

From the foregoing he seems to have begun his American experiences as
early as 1612, and to have frequently repeated them.  That he was at once
hired by Weston and Cushman as a valuable man, as soon as found, was not
strange.

He seems to have had the ability to impress men favorably and secure
their confidence, and to have been a modest and reliable man.  Although
of both experience and capacity, he continued an under-officer for some
years after the Pilgrim voyage, when, it is fair to suppose, he might
have had command of a ship.  He seems to have lacked confidence in
himself, or else the breadth of education necessary to make him trust his
ability as a navigator.

He is not mentioned, in connection with the affairs of the Pilgrims,
after he was hired as �pilot,�--on Saturday afternoon the 10th of June,
1620, at London,--until after the arrival at Cape Cod, and evidently was
steadily occupied during all the experience of �getting away� and of the
voyage, in the faithful performance of his duty as first mate (or
�pilot�) of the MAY-FLOWER.  It was not until the �third party� of
exploration from Cape Cod harbor was organized and set out, on Wednesday,
December 6, that he appeared as one of the company who put out in the
shallop, to seek the harbor which had been commended by Coppin, �the
second mate.�  On this eventful voyage--when the party narrowly escaped
shipwreck at the mouth of Plymouth harbor--they found shelter under the
lee of an island, which (it being claimed traditionally that he was first
to land there on) was called, in his honor, �Clarke�s Island,� which name
it retains to this day.  No other mention of him is made by name, in the
affairs of ship or shore, though it is known inferentially that he
survived the general illness which attacked and carried off half of the
ship�s company.  In November, 1621,--the autumn following his return from
the Pilgrim voyage,--he seems to have gone to Virginia as �pilot� (or
�mate�) of the FLYING HART, with cattle of Daniel Gookin, and in 1623 to
have attained command of a ship, the PROVIDENCE, belonging to Mr. Gookin,
on a voyage to Virginia where he arrived April 10, 1623, but died in that
colony soon after his arrival. He seems to have been a competent and
faithful man, who filled well his part in life.  He will always have
honorable mention as the first officer of the historic MAY-FLOWER, and as
sponsor at the English christening of the smiling islet in Plymouth
harbor which bears his name.

