Charles Deane, the editor of Bradford�s �Historie� (ed.1865), makes,
in indexing, the clerical error of referring to Coppin as the
�master-gunner,� an error doubtless occasioned by the fact that in the
text referred to, the words, �two of the masters-mates, Master Clarke
and Master Coppin, the master-gunner,� etc., were run so near together
that the mistake was readily made.

In �Mourt�s Relation� it appears that in the conferences that were held
aboard the ship in Cape Cod harbor, as to the most desirable place for
the colonists to locate, �Robert Coppin our pilot, made relation of a
great navigable river and great harbor in the headland of the Bay, almost
right over against Cape Cod, being a right line not much above eight
leagues distant,� etc.  Mrs. Jane G. Austin asserts, though absolutely
without warrant of any reliable authority, known tradition, or
probability, that �Coppin�s harbor .  .  . afterward proved to be Cut
River and the site of Marshfield,� but in another place she contradicts
this by stating that it was �Jones River, Duxbury.�  As Coppin described
his putative harbor, called �Thievish Harbor,� a �great navigable river
and good harbor� were in close relation, which was never true of either
the Jones River or �Cut River� localities, while any one familiar with
the region knows that what Mrs. Austin knew as �Cut River� had no
existence in the Pilgrims� early days, but was the work of man,
superseding a small river-mouth (Green Harbor River), which was so
shallow as to have its exit closed by the sand-shift of a single storm.

Young, with almost equal recklessness, says: �The other headland of the
bay,� alluded to by Coppin, was Manomet Point, and the river was probably
the North River in Scituate; but there are no �great navigable river and
good harbor� in conjunction in the neighborhood of Manomet, or of the
North River,--the former having no river and the latter no harbor.  If
Coppin had not declared that he had never seen the mouth of Plymouth
harbor before (�mine eyes never saw this place before�), it might readily
have been believed that Plymouth harbor was the �Thievish Harbor� of his
description, so well do they correspond.

