The Carpenter, Gunner, Boatswain, Quartermaster, and �Masters-mates� are
the only �petty officers� of the Pilgrim ship of whom any record makes
mention.  The carpenter is named several times, and was evidently, as
might be expected, one of the most useful men of the ship�s crew.  Called
into requisition, doubtless, in the conferences as to the condition of
the SPEEDWELL, on both of her returns to port, at the inception of the
voyage, he was especially in evidence when, in mid-ocean, �the cracking
and bending of a great deck-beam,� and the �shaken� condition of �the
upper works� of the MAY-FLOWER, gave rise to much alarm, and it was by
his labors and devices, and the use of the now famous �jack-screw,� that
the bending beam and leaking deck were made secure.  The repairs upon the
shallop in Cape Cod harbor also devolved upon him, and mention is made of
his illness and the dependence placed upon him. No doubt, in the
construction of the first dwellings and of the ordnance platform on the
hill, etc., he was the devising and principal workman.  He undoubtedly
returned to England with the ship, and is known in history only by his
�billet,� as �the carpenter� of the MAY-FLOWER.

The Master Gunner seems to have been a man with a proclivity for Indian
barter, that led him to seek a place with the �third expedition� at Cape
Cod, thereby nearly accomplishing his death, which indeed occurred later,
in Plymouth harbor, not long before the return of the ship.

The Boatswain is known, by Bradford�s records, to have died in the
general sickness which attacked the crew while lying in Plymouth harbor.
The brief narrative of his sickness and death is all that we know of his
personality.  The writer says: �He was a proud young man, and would often
curse and scoff at the passengers,� but being nursed when dying, by those
of them who remained aboard, after his shipmates had deserted him in
their craven fear of infection, �he bewailed his former conduct,� saying,
�Oh! you, I now see, show your love like Christians indeed, one to
another, but we let one another lie and die like dogs.�

