Four Quartermasters are mentioned (probably helmsmen simply), of whom
three are known to have died in Plymouth harbor.

�Masters-mates� are several times mentioned, but it is pretty certain
that the �pilots� (or mates) are intended. Bradford and Winslow, in
�Mourt�s Relation,� say of the reappearance of the Indians: �So Captain
Standish, with another [Hopkins], with their muskets, went over to them,
with two of the masters-mates that follow them without [side?] arms,
having two muskets with them: Who these �masters-mates� were does not
appear.�  The language, �two of the masters-mates,� would possibly suggest
that there were more of them.  It hardly seems probable that both the
mates of the MAY-FLOWER would thus volunteer, or thrust themselves
forward in such a matter, and it seems doubtful if they would have been
permitted (even if both ashore at one time, which, though unusual, did
occur), to assume such duty. Whoever they were, they did not lack
courage.

The names of the petty officers and seamen of the MAY-FLOWER do not
appear as such, but the discovery of the (evidently) nuncupative will of
William Mullens--herein referred to--has perhaps given us two of them.
Attached to John Carver�s certificate of the particulars of this will,
filed at Somerset House, London, are the names, �Giles Heale� and
�Christopher Joanes.�  As Mr Mullens died Wednesday, February 21, 1620,
on board the MAY-FLOWER in Plymouth harbor, on which day we know from
Bradford� that �the Master [Jones, whose name was Thomas] came on shore
with many of his sailors,� to land and mount the cannon on the fort, and
as they had a full day�s work to draw up the hill and mount five guns,
and moreover brought the materials for, and stayed to eat, a considerable
dinner with the Pilgrims, they were doubtless ashore all day.  It is
rational to interpret the known facts to indicate that in this absence of
the Captain and most of his crew ashore, Mr. Mullens, finding himself
failing fast, sent for Governor Carver and--unable to do more than speak
--dictated to him the disposition of his property which he desired to
make.  Carver, noting this down from his dictation, undoubtedly called in
two of the ship�s company (Heale very likely being the ship�s-surgeon),
who were left aboard to �keep ship,� to hear his notes read to Mullens
and assented to by him, they thus becoming the witnesses to his will, to
the full copy of which, as made by Carver (April 2), they affixed their
names as such.  As there were then at Plymouth (besides savages) only the
passengers and crew of the MAY-FLOWER, and these men were certainly not
among the passengers, it seems inevitable that they were of the crew.
That �Christopher Joanes� was not the Master of the ship is clear,
because Heale�s is the first signature, and no man of the crew would have
dared to sign before the Captain; because the Captain�s name was (as
demonstrated) Thomas; and because we know that he was ashore all that
day, with most of his men.  It is by no means improbable that Captain
Jones had shipped one of his kinsmen in his crew, possibly as one of the
�masters mates� or quartermasters referred to (and it is by no means
certain that there were not more than two), though these witnesses may
have been quartermasters or other petty officers left on board as
�ship-keepers.�  Certain it is that these two witnesses must have been
of the crew, and that �Christopher Joanes� was not the Captain, while it
is equally sure, from the collateral evidence, that Master Mullens died
on shipboard.  Had he died on shore it is very certain that some of the
leaders, Brewster, Bradford, or others, would have been witnesses, with
such of the ship�s officers as could aid in proving the will in England.
It is equally evident that the officers of the ship were absent when
Master Mullens dictated his will, except perhaps the surgeon.

