Richard Gardiner, Goodwin unequivocally places with the English colonists
(but on what authority does not fully appear), and he has been
claimed, but without any better warrant, for the Leyden list.

John Billington and his family were unmistakably of the English
colonists.  Mrs. Billington�s name has been variously given,
e.g.  Helen, Ellen, and Eleanor, and the same writer has used them
interchangeably.  One writer has made the inexcusable error of
stating that �the younger son, Francis, was born after the arrival
at New Plymouth,� but his own affidavit shows him to have been born
in 1606.

William Latham, a �servant-boy� of Deacon Carver, has always been of
doubtful relation, some circumstances indicating that he was of
Leyden and hence was a SPEEDWELL passenger, but others--and these
the more significant--rendering it probable that he was an English
boy, who was obtained in London (like the More children) and
apprenticed to Carver, in which case he probably came in the
MAY-FLOWER from London, though he may have awaited her coming with
his master at Southampton, in which case he probably originally
embarked there, with him, on the SPEEDWELL, and was transferred
with him, at Plymouth, to the MAY-FLOWER.  There is, of course,
also still the possibility that he came with Carver�s family from
Leyden.  Governor Carver�s early death necessarily changed his
status somewhat, and Plymouth early records do not give much beyond
suggestion as to what the change was; but all indications confirm
the opinion that he was a poor boy--very likely of London or
vicinity--taken by Carver as his �servant.�

The More children, Jasper, Richard, their brother (whose given name has
never transpired), and Ellen, their sister, invite more than passing
mention.  The belief has always been current and confident among
students of Pilgrim history that these More children, four in
number, �put� or �indentured� to three of the Leyden leaders, were
probably orphaned children of some family of the Leyden
congregation, and were so �bound� to give them a chance in the new
colony, in return for such services as they could render to those
they accompanied.  If thus of the Leyden contingent they would,
of course, be enumerated as passengers in the SPEEDWELL from
Delfshaven, but if of the English contingent they should probably be
borne on the list of passengers sailing from London in the
MAY-FLOWER, certainly should be reckoned as part of the English
contingent on the MAY-FLOWER at Southampton.  An affidavit of
Richard More, perhaps the eldest of these children, indentured to
Elder Brewster, dated in 1684., found in �Proceedings of the
Provincial Court, Maryland Archives, vol.  xiv.  [�New England
Historic-Genealogical Register,� vol  1.  p. 203 ),� affirms the
deponent to be then �seaventy years or thereabouts� of age, which
would have made him some six years of age, �or thereabouts,� in
1620.  He deposes �that being in London at the house of Mr. Thomas
Weston, Iron monger, in the year 1620, he was from there transported
to New Plymouth in New England,� etc. This clearly identifies
Richard More of the MAY FLOWER, and renders it well-nigh certain
that he and his brothers and sister, �bound out� like himself to
Pilgrim leaders, were of the English company, were probably never in
Leyden or on the SPEEDWELL, and were very surely passengers on the
MAY-FLOWER from London, in charge of Mr. Cushman or others.  The
fact that the lad was in London, and went from thence direct to New
England, is good evidence that he was not of the Leyden party.  The
fair presump tion is that his brothers and sister were, like
himself, of English birth, and humble--perhaps deceased--parents,
taken because of their orphaned condition. It is highly improbable
that they would be taken from London to Southampton by land, at the
large expense of land travel in those days, when the MAY-FLOWER was
to sail from London.  That they would accompany their respective
masters to their respectively assigned ships at Southampton is
altogether likely. The phraseology of his affidavit suggests the
probability that Richard More, his brothers, and sister were brought
to Mr. Weston�s house, to be by him sent aboard the MAY-FLOWER,
about to sail.  The affidavit is almost conclusive evidence as to
the fact that the More children were all of the English colonists�
party, though apprenticed to Leyden families, and belonged to the
London passenger list of the Pilgrim ship.  The researches of Dr.
Neill among the MS. �minutes� and �transactions� of the (London)
Virginia Company show germanely that, on November 17, 1619, �the
treasurer, council, and company� of this Virginia Company addressed
Sir William Cockaine, Knight, Lord Mayor of the city of London, and
the right worthys the aldermen, his brethren, and the worthys the
�common council of the city,� and  returning thanks for the benefits
conferred, in furnishing out one hundred children this last year
for �the plantation in Virginia� (from what Neill calls the
�homeless boys and girls of London�), states, that, �forasmuch as we
have now resolved to send this next spring [1620] very large
supplies,� etc., �we pray your Lordship and the rest .  .  .  to
renew the like favors, and furnish us again with one hundred more
for the next spring.  Our desire is that we may have them of twelve
years old and upward, with allowance of L3 apiece for their
transportation, and 40s. apiece for their apparel, as was formerly
granted.  They shall be apprenticed; the boys till they come to 21
years of age, the girls till like age or till they be married,� etc.
A letter of Sir Edwin Sandys (dated January 28, 1620) to Sir Robert
Naunton shows that �The city of London have appointed one hundred
children from the superfluous multitude to be transported to
Virginia, there to be bound apprentices upon very beneficial
conditions.�  In view of the facts that these More children--and
perhaps others--were �apprenticed� or �bound� to the Pilgrims
(Carver, Winslow, Brewster, etc.), and that there must have been
some one to make the indentures, it seems strongly probable that
these four children of one family,--as Bradford shows,--very likely
orphaned, were among those designated by the city of London for the
benefit of the (London) Virginia Company in the spring of 1620.
They seem to have been waifs caught up in the westward-setting
current, but only Richard survived the first winter.  Bradford,
writing in 1650, states of Richard More that his brothers and sister
died, �but he is married [1636] and hath 4 or 5 children.�  William
T. Davis, in his �Ancient Landmarks of Plymouth� (p. 24), states,
and Arber copies him, that �he was afterwards called Mann; and died
at Scituate, New England, in 1656.�  The researches of Mr. George E.
Bowman, the able Secretary of the Massachusetts Society of
MAY-FLOWER Descendants, some time since disproved this error,
but Mores affidavit quoted conclusively determines the matter.

