All the colonists still intending to go to America were now gathered in
one vessel.  Whatever previous disposition of them had been made, or
whatever relations they might have had in the disjointed record of the
exodus, were ephemeral, and are now lost sight of in the enduring
interest which attaches to their final and successful �going forth� as
MAY-FLOWER Pilgrims.

Bradford informs us--as already noted--that, just before the departure
from Southampton, having �ordered and distributed their company for
either ship, as they conceived for the best,� they �chose a Governor and
two or three assistants for each ship, to order the people by the way,
and see to the disposing of the provisions, and such like affairs.  All
which was not only with the liking of the Masters of the ships, but
according to their desires.�  We have seen that under this arrangement
--the wisdom and necessity of which are obvious--Martin was made �Governor�
on the �biger ship� and Cushman his �assistante.�  Although we find no
mention of the fact, it is rendered certain by the record which Bradford
makes of the action of the Pilgrim company on December 11, 1620, at Cape
Cod,--when they �confirmed� Deacon John Carver as �Governor,�--that he
was and had been such, over the colonist passengers for the voyage (the
ecclesiastical authority only remaining to Elder Brewster), Martin
holding certainly no higher than the second place, made vacant by
Cushman�s departure.

Thus, hardly had the Pilgrims shaken the dust of their persecuting
mother-country from their feet before they set up, by popular voice
(above religious authority, and even that vested by maritime law in their
ships� officers), a government of themselves, by themselves, and for
themselves.  It was a significant step, and the early revision they made
of their choice of �governors� certifies their purpose to have only
rulers who could command their confidence and respect. Dr. Young says:
�We know the age of but few of the Pilgrims,� which has hitherto been
true; yet by careful examination of reliable data, now available, we are
able to deter mine very closely the ages of a considerable number, and
approximately the years of most of the others, at the time of the exodus.
No analysis, so far as known, has hitherto been made of the vocations
(trades, etc.) represented by the MAY-FLOWER company.  They were, as
befitted those bent on founding a colony, of considerable variety, though
it should be understood that the vocations given were, so far as
ascertained, the callings the individuals who represented them had
followed before taking ship.  Several are known to have been engaged
in other pursuits at some time, either before their residence in Holland,
or during their earlier years there.  Bradford tells us that most of the
Leyden congregation (or that portion of it which came from England, in or
about 1608) were agricultural people.  These were chiefly obliged to
acquire handicrafts or other occupations.  A few, e.g.  Allerton,
Brewster, Bradford, Carver, Cooke, and Winslow, had possessed some means,
while others had been bred to pursuits for which there was no demand in
the Low Countries.  Standish, bred to arms, apparently followed his
profession nearly to the time of departure, and resumed it in the colony,
adding thereto the calling which, in all times and all lands, had been
held compatible in dignity with that of arms,--the pursuit of
agriculture.  While always the �Sword of the White Men,� he was the
pioneer �planter� in the first settlement begun (at Duxbury) beyond
Plymouth limits.  Of the �arts, crafts or trades� of the colonists from
London and neighboring English localities, but little has been gleaned.
They were mostly people of some means, tradesmen rather than artisans,
and at least two (Martin and Mullens) were evidently also of the Merchant
Adventurers.

