Of the above list of fourteen men whose last occupations before joining
the colonists are unknown, only five, viz. Browne, Billington, Cooke,
Gardiner, and Warren lived beyond the spring of 1621.  Of these, Warren
died early, Gardiner left the colony and �became a seaman;� the other
three, Billington, Browne, and Cooke, became �planters.�  Thomas Morton,
of �Merry Mount,� in his �New Eng land�s Canaan� (p. 217), gives
Billington the sobriquet �Ould Woodman.�

The early deaths of the others make their former handicrafts--except as
so much data pertaining to the composi tion and history of the colony--
matters of only ephemeral interest.




CHAPTER VII

QUARTERS, COOKING, PROVISIONS

Probably no more vexatious problem presented itself for the time being to
the �governors� of the two vessels and their �assistants,� upon their
selection, than the assignment of quarters to the passengers allotted to
their respective ships.  That these allotments were in a large measure
determined by the requirements of the women and children may be
considered certain.  The difficulties attendant on due recognition of
social and official station (far more imperative in that day than this)
were in no small degree lessened by the voluntary assignment of
themselves, already mentioned, of some of the Leyden chief people to the
smaller ship; but in the interests of the general welfare and of harmony,
certain of the leaders, both of the Leyden and London contingents, were
of necessity provided for in the larger vessel.  The allotments to the
respective ships made at Southampton, the designation of quarters in the
ships themselves, and the final readjustments upon the MAY-FLOWER at
Plymouth (England), when the remaining passengers of both ships had been
united, were all necessarily determined chiefly with regard to the needs
of the women, girls, and babes.  Careful analysis of the list shows that
there were, requiring this especial consideration, nineteen women, ten
young girls, and one infant.  Of the other children, none were so young
that they might not readily bunk with or near their fathers in any part
of the ship in which the latter might be located.

