Cabins and bunks �between decks� would provide for all of the males of
the company, while the seamen, both of the crew and (some of) those in
the employ of the Pilgrims--like Trevore and Ely--were no doubt housed in
the fore castle.  Alderton and English seem to have been counted �of the
company.�  The few data we have permit us to confidently assume that some
such disposition of the passengers was (necessarily) made, and that but
for the leaky decks, the inseparable discomforts of the sea, and those of
over crowding, the wives of the Pilgrims (three of whom gave birth to
children aboard the ship), and their daughters, were fairly �berthed.�

Bradford is authority for the statement that with the �governor� of the
ship�s company were chosen �two or three assistants .  .  .  to order
[regulate] the people by the way [on the passage] and see to the
disposition of the provisions,� etc. The last-named duty must have been a
most difficult and wearisome one.  From what has been shown of the
poverty of the ship�s cooking facilities (especially for so large a
company), one must infer that it would be hopeless to expect to cook food
in any quantity, except when all conditions favored, and then but slowly
and with much difficulty.  From the fact that so many would require food
at practically the same hours of the day, it is clear that there must
have been distribution of food (principally uncooked) to groups or
families, who, with the aid of servants (when available), must each have
prepared their own meals, cooking as occasion and opportunity indicated;
much after the manner of the steerage passengers in later days, but
before those of the great ocean liners.  There appears to have been but
one cook for the officers and crew of the ship, and his hands were
doubtless full with their demands.  It is certain that his service to the
passengers must have been very slight.  That �the cook� is named as one
of the ship�s crew who died in Plymouth harbor (New England) is all the
knowledge we have concerning him.

