The use of and dependence upon tea and coffee, now so universal, and at
sea so seemingly indispensable, was then unknown, beer supplying their
places, and this happily did not have to be prepared with fire.  �Strong
waters�--Holland gin and to some extent �aqua vitae� (brandy)--were
relied upon for the (supposed) maintenance of warmth.  Our Pilgrim
Fathers were by no means �total abstainers,� and sadly bewailed being
deprived of their beer when the supply failed.  They also made general
and habitual (moderate) use of wine and spirits, though they sharply
interdicted and promptly punished their abuse.

In the absence of cooking facilities, it became necessary in that day to
rely chiefly upon such articles of food as did not require to be prepared
by heat, such as biscuit (hard bread), butter, cheese (�Holland cheese�
was a chief staple with the Pilgrims), �haberdyne� (or dried salt
codfish), smoked herring, smoked (�cured �) ham and bacon, �dried neat�s
tongues,� preserved and �potted� meats (a very limited list in that day),
fruits, etc. Mush, oatmeal, pease-puddings, pickled eggs, sausage meats,
salt beef and pork, bacon, �spiced beef,� such few vegetables as they had
(chiefly cabbages, turnips, and onions,--there were no potatoes in that
day), etc., could be cooked in quantity, when the weather permitted, and
would then be eaten cold.

Except as dried or preserved fruits, vegetables (notably onions), limes,
lemon juice, and the free use of vinegar feebly counteracted, their food
was distinctively stimulant of scorbutic and tuberculosis disease, which
constant exposure to cold and wet and the overcrowded state of the ship
could but increase and aggravate.  Bradford narrates of one of the crew
of the MAY-FLOWER when in Plymouth harbor, as suggestive of the wretched
conditions prevalent in the ship, that one of his shipmates, under an
agreement to care for him, �got him a little spice and made him a mess of
beef, once or twice,� and then deserted him.

