[Captain Martin Pring had at Plymouth, in 1603, two great �mastive
dogges� named �Fool� and �Gallant,� the former being trained to carry
a half-pike in his mouth.  �The Indians were more afraid of these
dogs than of twenty men.�  American Magazine of History; Goodwin,
Pilgrim Republic, p. 3.]

and a small spaniel, both the property of passengers, though there may
have been others not mentioned. Speaking of the venison found in a tree
by one of the exploring parties, Winslow says: �We thought it fitter for
the dogs than for us,� perhaps suggesting by his word �the� their own
dogs aboard ship and provision for them.  There is an intimation as to
the ownership of these two dogs in the facts that on certainly two
occasions John Goodman was accompanied by the little spaniel (once when
alone), from which it may perhaps be inferred that he was the dog�s
master; while the big mastiffs presence when only Peter Browne and
Goodman were together suggests that Browne was her owner. The goats,
swine, rabbits, and poultry were doubtless penned on the spar-deck
forward, while possibly some poultry, and any sheep brought for food, may
have been temporarily housed--as was a practice with early voyagers--in
the (unused) ship�s boats, though these appear to have been so few in
number and so much in demand that it is doubtful if they were here
available as pens. The heavy cargo and most of the lighter was of course
stowed in the hold, as the main deck (or ��tween decks�) was mostly
occupied as quarters for the male passengers, old and young, though the
colonists� shallop, a sloop-rigged boat some thirty feet in length,  had
been �cut down� and stowed �between the decks� for the voyage.  A glimpse
of the weary life at sea on that long and dreary passage is given in
Bradford�s remark that �she was much opened with the people�s lying in
her during the voyage:� This shallop with her equipment, a possible spare
skiff or two, the chests, �boxes,� and other personal belongings of the
passengers, some few cases of goods, some furniture, etc., constituted
the only freight for which there could have been room �between decks,�
most of the space (aft) being occupied by cabins and bunks.

