Some of the early forms of British and Dutch calendars, �annuals,� and
agricultural �hand-books,� it is certain were brought over by several
families, and were doubtless much consulted and well-thumbed �guides,
counsellors, and friends� in the households of their possessors.  The
great preponderance of reading matter brought by the little colony was,
however, unquestionably of the religious controversial order, which had
been so much a part of their lives, and its sum total was considerable.
There are intimations, in the inventories of the Fathers, of a few works
of historical cast, but of these not many had yet been printed.
�Caesar�s Commentaries,� a �History of the World,� and a �History of
Turkey� on Standish�s shelves, with the two Dictionaries and �Peter
Martyr on Rome� on Dr. Fuller�s, were as likely to have come in the first
ship, and to have afforded as much satisfaction to the hungry readers of
the little community as any of the books we find named in the lists of
their little stock. It is pathetic to note, in these days of utmost
prodigality in juvenile literature, that for the Pilgrim children, aside
from the �Bible stories,� some of the wonderful and mirth-provoking
metrical renderings of the �Psalme booke,� and the �horne booke,� or
primer (the alphabet and certain elementary contributions in verse or
prose, placed between thin covers of transparent horn for protection),
there was almost absolutely nothing in the meagre book-freight of the
Pilgrim ark.  �Milk for Babes,� whether as physical or mental pabulum,
was in poor supply aboard the MAY-FLOWER.

The most that can be claimed with confidence, for particular objects of
alleged MAY-FLOWER relation, is that there is logical and moral certainty
that there was a supply of just such things on board, because they were
indispensable, and because every known circumstance and condition
indicates their presence in the hands to which they are assigned, while
tradition and collateral evidence confirm the inference and sometimes go
very far to establish their alleged identity, and their presence with
their respective owners upon the ship. A few other articles besides those
enumerated in possession of the Pilgrim Society, and of other societies
and individuals, present almost equally strong claims with those named,
to be counted as �of MAY-FLOWER belonging,� but in no case is the
connection entirely beyond question.  Where so competent, interested, and
conscientious students of Pilgrim history as Hon. William T. Davis, of
Plymouth, and the late Dr. Thomas B. Drew, so long the curator of the
Pilgrim Society, cannot find warrant for a positive claim in behalf of
any article as having come, beyond a doubt, �in the MAY FLOWER,� others
may well hesitate to insist upon that which, however probable and
desirable, is not susceptible of conclusive proof.

