Unhappily we know little from contemporaneous authority as to what grain
and other seeds the Pilgrims brought with them for planting.  We may be
sure, however, that rye, barley, oats, wheat, pease, and beans were the
bulkiest of this part of their freight, though Bradford mentions the
planting of �garden seeds� their first spring.

While we know from the earliest Pilgrim chronicles that their mechanics�
implements embraced axes, saws, hammers, �adzs,� augers, hatchets, an
�iron jack-scrue,� �staples and locks,� etc., we know there must have
been many other tools not mentioned by them, brought over with the
settlers.  The �great iron-scrue,� as Bradford calls it in his original
MS., played, as all know, a most important part on the voyage, in forcing
the �cracked and bowed� deck-beam of the ship into place.  Governor
Bradford tells us that �it was brought on board by one of the Leyden
passengers,� and one may hazard the guess that it was by either Moses
Fletcher, the smith, or Francis Eaton, the �carpenter.�  �Staples� and
�locks� found their place and mention, as well as the �chains,�
�manacles,� and �leg-irons� named in the list of accoutrements for
offence or defence, when it became necessary to chain up the Indian spy
of the Neponsets (as narrated by Winslow in his �Good Newes from New
England�) and other evil-doers.  The planters seem to have made stiff
�mortar,� which premises the use of lime and indicates a supply.

Among the fishing and fowling implements of the MAY FLOWER colonists are
recorded, nets, �seynes,� twine, fish hooks, muskets (for large game),
�fowling pieces,� powder, �goose-shot,� �hail-shot,� etc.

Such early mention is found of the nets, �seynes,� etc., of their fishing
equipment, as to leave no room for doubt that store of them was brought
in the ship.  They seem to have been unfortunate in the size of their
fish-hooks, which are spoken of as �too large� even for cod.  They must,
as Goodwin remarks, �have been very large.�  Window also says, �We wanted
fit and strong seines and other netting.�

