They seem to have relied upon their muskets to some extent for wild fowl
(as witness Winslow�s long and successful shot at a duck, on his visit to
Massasoit), as they undoubtedly did for deer, etc.  They were apparently
fairly well supplied with them, of either the �matchlock� or �snaphance�
(flintlock) pattern, though the planters complained to the Merchant
Adventurers (in their letter of August 3, from Southampton), that they
were �wanting many muskets,� etc.  That they had some �fowling-pieces� is
shown by the fact that young Billington seems (according to Bradford) to
have �shot one off in his father�s cabin� aboard ship in Cape Cod harbor,
and there are several other coeval mentions of them.

The arms and accoutrements (besides ordnance) of the MAY-FLOWER Pilgrims,
known on the authority of Bradford and Winslow to have been brought by
them, included muskets (�matchlocks�), �snaphances� (flintlocks), armor
(�corslets,� �cuirasses,� �helmets,� �bandoliers,� etc.), swords,
�curtlaxes� (cutlasses), �daggers,� powder, �mould-shot,� �match�
(slow-match for guns), �flints,� belts, �knapsacks,� �drum,� �trumpet,�
�manacles,� �leg-irons,� etc., etc.  �Pistols� (brass) appear in early
inventories, but their absence in the early hand-to-hand encounter at
Wessagussett indicates that none were then available, or that they were
not trusted. It is evident from the statement of Bradford that every one
of the sixteen men who went out (under command of Standish) on the �first
exploration� at Cape Cod had his �musket, sword, and corslet;� that they
relied much on their armor, and hence, doubtless, took all possible with
them on the ship.  They probably did not long retain its use.  In the
letter written to the Adventurers from Southampton, the leaders complain
of �wanting many muskets, much armour, &c.�

Josselyn gives� the equipment he considers necessary for each man going
to New England to settle:--

�Armor compleat:--
One long piece [musket] five feet or five and a half long.
One Sword.
One bandoleer.
One belt.
Twenty pounds of powder.
Sixty pounds of shot or lead, pistol and Goose-shot.�

