[Bradford (in Mourt�s Relation) says: �This day before we come to
harbor Italics the author�s, observing some not well affected to
unity and concord, but gave some appearance of faction, it was
thought good there should be an Association and Agreement that we
should combine together in one body; and to submit to such
Government and Governors as we should, by common consent, agree to
make and choose, and set our hands to this that follows word for
word.�  Then follows the Compact. Bradford is even more explicit in
his Historie (Mass. ed.  p. 109), where he says: �I shall a little
returne backe and begin with a combination made by them before they
came ashore, being ye first foundation of their governments in this
place; occasioned partly by ye discontent & mutinous speeches that
some of the strangers amongst them [i.e.  not any of the Leyden
contingent had let fall from them in ye ship--That when they came
ashore they would use their owne libertie: for none had power to
command them, the patents they had being for Virginia, and not for
New-England which belonged to another Government, with which ye
London [or First Virginia Company had nothing to doe, and partly
that such an acte by them done .  .  .  might be as firm as any
patent, and in some respects more sure.�  Dr. Griffis is hardly
warranted in making Bradford to say, as he does (The Pilgrims in
their Three Homes, p. 182), that �there were a few people I
�shuffled� in upon them the company who were probably unmitigated
scoundrels.�  Bradford speaks only of Billington and his family as
those �shuffled into their company,� and while he was not improbably
one of the agitators (with Hopkins) who were the proximate causes of
the drawing up of the Compact, he was not, in this case, the
responsible leader. It is evident from the foregoing that the
�appearance of faction� did not show itself until the vessel�s prow
was turned back toward Cape Cod Harbor, and it became apparent that
the effort to locate �near Hudson�s River� was to be abandoned, and
a location found north of 41 degrees north latitude, which would
leave them without charter rights or authority of any kind.  It is
undoubtedly history that Master Stephen Hopkins,--then �a
lay-reader� for Chaplain Buck,--on Sir Thomas Gates�s expedition to
Virginia, had, when some of them were cast away on the Bermudas,
advocated just such sentiments--on the same basis--as were now
bruited upon the MAY-FLOWER, and it could hardly have been
coincidence only that the same were repeated here.  That Hopkins
fomented the discord is well-nigh certain.  It caused him, as
elsewhere noted, to receive sentence of death for insubordination,
at the hands of Sir Thomas Gates, in the first instance, from which
his pardon was with much difficulty procured by his friends.  In the
present case, it led to the drafting and execution of the Pilgrim
Compact, a framework of civil self-government whose fame will never
die; though the author is in full accord with Dr. Young (Chronicles,
p. 120) in thinking that �a great deal more has been discovered in
this document than the signers contemplated,�--wonderfully
comprehensive as it is.  Professor Herbert B. Adams, of Johns
Hopkins University, says in his admirable article in the Magazine of
American History, November, 1882 (pp--798 799): �The fundamental
idea of this famous document was that of a contract based upon the
common law of England,�--certainly a stable and ancient basis of
procedure.  Their Dutch training (as Griffis points out) had also
led naturally to such ideas of government as the Pilgrims adopted.
It is to be feared that Griffis�s inference (The Pilgrims in their
Three Homes, p. 184), that all who signed the Compact could write,
is unwarranted.  It is more than probable that if the venerated
paper should ever be found, it would show that several of those
whose names are believed to have been affixed to it �made their
�mark.��  There is good reason, also, to believe that neither
�sickness� (except unto death) nor �indifference� would have
prevented the ultimate obtaining of the signatures (by �mark,� if
need be) of every one of the nine male servants who did not
subscribe, if they were considered eligible.  Severe illness was, we
know, answerable for the absence of a few, some of whom died a few
days later.

