
Many went ashore to refresh themselves, and
the women to wash.

TUESDAY, Nov. 14/24
Lying at anchor.  Carpenter at work on
shallop.  Arms and accoutrements being got
ready for an exploring party inland.

WEDNESDAY, Nov. 15/25
Lying at anchor in harbor.  Master and
boat�s crew went ashore, followed in the
afternoon by an armed party of sixteen men
under command of Captain Myles Standish.
Masters William Bradford, Stephen Hopkins,
and Edward Tilley being joined to him for
council.  The party to be gone from the
ship a day or two. Weather mild and ground
not frozen.

THURSDAY, Nov. 16/26
Lying at anchor in harbor.  Exploring party
still absent from ship.  Weather continues
open.

FRIDAY, Nov. 17/27
At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Weather open.
Saw signal-fire on the other side of bay
this morning, built by exploring party as
arranged.  The Master, Governor Carver, and
many of the company ashore in afternoon,
and met exploring party there on their
return to ship.  Hearing their signal-guns
before they arrived at the shore, sent
long-boat to fetch them aboard.  They
reported seeing Indians and following them
ten miles without coming up to them the
first afternoon out, and the next day found
store of corn buried, and a big ship�s
kettle, which they brought to the ship with
much corn.  Also saw deer and found
excellent water.

SATURDAY, Nov. 18/28
At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Planters
helving tools, etc.  Carpenter at work on
shallop, which takes more labor than at
first supposed.  Weather still moderate.
Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Nov. 19/29
At anchor, Gape Cod harbor.  Second Sunday
in harbor.  Services aboard ship.  Seamen
ashore.  Change in weather. Colder.

MONDAY, Nov. 20/30
At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Carpenter and
others at work on shallop, getting out
stock for a new shallop, helving tools,
making articles needed, etc.

TUESDAY, Nov. 21/Dec. 1
At anchor in harbor.  Much inconvenienced
in going ashore.  Can only go and come at
high water except by wading, from which
many have taken coughs and colds.

