TUESDAY, Nov. 28/Dec. 8
At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Cold.  Master
Jones and exploring party absent on shore
with long-boat and colonists� shallop.  The
latter, which beached near ship yesterday
in a strong wind and harbored there last
night, got under way this morning and
sailed up the harbor, following the course
taken by the long-boat yesterday, the wind
favoring.  Six inches of snow fell
yesterday and last night.  Crew at work
clearing snow from ship.

WEDNESDAY, Nov. 29/Dec. 9
At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Cold. Foul
weather threatening.  Master Jones with
sixteen men in the long-boat and shallop
came aboard towards night (eighteen men
remaining ashore), bringing also about ten
bushels of Indian corn which had been found
buried.  The Master reports a long march,
the exploration of two creeks, great
numbers of wild fowl, the finding of much
corn and beans,� etc.

[This seems to be the first mention of beans (in early Pilgrim
literature) as indigenous (presumably) to New England.  They have
held an important place in her dietary ever since.]

THURSDAY, Nov. 30/Dec. 10
At anchor in harbor.  Sent shallop to head
of harbor with mattocks and spades, as
desired by those ashore, the seamen taking
their muskets also.  The shallop came
alongside at nightfall with the rest of the
explorers--the tide being out--bringing a
lot of Indian things, baskets, pottery,
wicker-ware, etc., discovered in two graves
and sundry Indian houses they found after
the Master left them.  They report ground
frozen a foot deep.

FRIDAY, Dec. 1/11
At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Carpenter
finishing work on shallop. Colonists
discussing locations visited, as places for
settlement.

SATURDAY, Dec. 2/12
At anchor in harbor.  Much discussion among
colonists as to settlement, the Master
insisting on a speedy determination.
Whales playing about the ship in
considerable numbers.  One lying within
half a musket-shot of the ship, two of the
Planters shot at her, but the musket of the
one who gave fire first blew in pieces both
stock and barrel, yet no one was hurt.
Fetched wood and water.

