SUNDAY, Dec. 3/13
At anchor in Cape Cod harbor.  The fourth
Sunday here.  Scarce any of those aboard
free from vehement coughs, some very ill.
Weather very variable.

MONDAY, Dec. 4/14
At anchor in Cape Cod harbor.  Carpenter
completing repairs on shallop. Much
discussion of plans for settlement.  The
Master urging that the Planters should
explore with their shallop at some
distance, declining in such season to stir
from the present anchorage till a safe
harbor is discovered by them where they
would be and he might go without danger.
This day died Edward Thompson, a servant of
Master William White, the first to die
aboard the ship since she anchored in the
harbor.  Burying-party sent ashore after
services to bury him.

TUESDAY, Dec. 5/15
At anchor in harbor.  Francis Billington, a
young son of one of the passengers, put the
ship and all in great jeopardy, by shooting
off a fowling-piece in his father�s cabin
between decks where there was a small
barrel of powder open, and many people
about the fire close by.  None hurt.
Weather cold and foul.

WEDNESDAY, Dec. 6/16
At anchor in harbor.  Very cold, bad
weather.  This day died Jasper More, a lad
bound to Governor Carver.  The second death
in the harbor.  The third exploring party
got away from the ship in the afternoon in
the shallop, intent on finding a harbor
recommended by the second mate, Robert
Coppin, who had visited it.  Captain
Standish in command, with whom were
Governor Carver, Masters Bradford, Winslow,
John Tilley and Edward Tilley, Warren and
Hopkins, John Howland, Edward Dotey, and
two of the colonists� seamen, Alderton and
English, and of the ship�s company, the
mates Clarke and Coppin, the master-gunner
and three sailors, eighteen in all.  The
shallop was a long time getting clear of
the point, having to row, but at last got
up her sails and out of the harbor.  Sent
burying-party ashore with body of little
More boy, after services aboard.

THURSDAY, Dec. 7/17
At anchor in Cape Cod harbor.  This day
Mistress Dorothy Bradford, wife of Master
Bradford, who is away with the exploring
party to the westward, fell over board and
was drowned.

