THURSDAY, Dec. 14/24
At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  The colonists
have determined to make settlement at the
harbor they visited, and which is
apparently, by Captain John Smith�s chart
of 1616, no other than the place he calls
�Plimoth� thereon.  Fetched wood and water.

FRIDAY, Dec. 15/25
Weighed anchor to go to the place the
exploring party discovered.  Course west,
after leaving harbor.  Shallop in company.
Coming within two leagues, the wind coming
northwest, could not fetch the harbor, and
was faine to put round again towards Cape
Cod.  Made old anchorage at night.  The
thirty-fifth night have lain at anchor
here.  Shallop returned with ship.

SATURDAY, Dec. 16/26
Comes in with fair wind for Plymouth.
Weighed anchor and put to sea again and made
harbor safely.  Shallop in company.  Within
half an hour of anchoring the wind changed,
so if letted [hindered] but a little had
gone back to Cape Cod.  A fine harbor.
Let go anchors just within a long spur of
beach a mile or more from shore. The end of
the outward voyage; one hundred and two days
from Plymouth (England to Plymouth New
England). One hundred and fifty-five days
from London.




THE SHIPS JOURNAL WHILE SHE LAY IN
PLYMOUTH HARBOR

SUNDAY, Dec. 17/27
At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Services on
ship.  This harbor is a bay greater than
Cape Cod, compassed with goodly land. It is
in fashion like a sickle or fish-hook.

MONDAY, Dec. 18/28
At anchor, Plymouth harbor: The Master of
the ship, with three or four of the sailors
and several of the Planters, went aland and
marched along the coast several miles.
Made careful examination of locality. Found
many brooks of fine water, abundant wood,
etc.  The party came aboard at night weary
with marching.

TUESDAY, Dec. 19/29
At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  A party from
the ship went ashore to discover, some
going by land and some keeping to the
shallop.  A creek was found leading up
within the land and followed up three
English miles, a very pleasant river at
full sea.  It was given the name of �Jones
River� in compliment to the Master of the
ship.  A bark of thirty tons may go up at
high tide, but the shallop could scarcely
pass at low water.  All came aboard at
night with resolution to fix, to-morrow,
which of the several places examined they
would settle upon.

