THURSDAY, Dec. 21/31
At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  Wet and
stormy, so the Planters could not go ashore
as planned, having blown hard and rained
extremely all night.  Very uncomfortable
for the party on shore.  So tempestuous
that the shallop could not go to land as
soon as was meet, for they had no victuals
on land.  About eleven o�clock the shallop
went off with much ado with provision, but
could not return, it blew so strong.  Such
foul weather forced to ride with three
anchors ahead.  This day Richard
Britteridge, one of the colonists, died
aboard the ship, the first to die in this
harbor.

FRIDAY, Dec. 22/Jan. 1
At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  The storm
continues, so that no one could go ashore,
or those on land come aboard.  This morning
goodwife Allerton was delivered of a son,
but dead-born. The third child born on
board the ship since leaving England,--the
first in this harbor.

SATURDAY, Dec. 23/Jan. 2
At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Sent body of
Britteridge ashore for burial, the storm
having prevented going before, and also a
large party of colonists to fell timber,
etc.  Left a large number on shore at the
rendezvous.  Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Dec. 24/Jan. 3
At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  Second Sunday
here.  This day died Solomon Prower, one of
the family of Master Martin, the treasurer
of the colonists, being the sixth death
this month, and the second in this harbor.
A burying-party went ashore with Prower�s
body, after services aboard.

MONDAY, Dec. 25/Jan. 4
At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Christmas
Day, but not observed by these colonists,
they being opposed to all saints� days,
etc.  The men on shore Sunday reported that
they �heard a cry of some savages,� as they
thought, that day.  A large party went
ashore this morning to fell timber and
begin building.  They began to erect the
first house about twenty feet square for
their common use, to receive them and their
goods.  Another alarm as of Indians this
day.  All but twenty of the Planters came
aboard at night, leaving the rest to keep
court of guard.  The colonists began to
drink water, but at night the Master caused
them to have some beer.

