SATURDAY, Feb. 17/27
At anchorage.  All the colonists on the
ship able to go on shore went this morning
to attend the meeting for the establishment
of military orders among them.  They chose
Captain Standish their captain, and gave
him authority of command in affairs.  Two
savages appeared on the hill, a quarter of
a mile from the plantation, while the
Planters were consulting, and made signs
for Planters to come to them.  All armed
and stood ready, and sent two towards them,
Captain Standish and Master Hopkins, but
the natives would not tarry.  It was
determined to plant the great ordnance in
convenient places at once.  Fetched wood
and water.

SUNDAY, Feb. 18/28
At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  The Feb.
tenth Sunday in this harbor.  Many sick,
both on board the ship and on shore.

MONDAY, Feb. 19/Mar. 1
At anchorage.  Got one of the great guns on
shore with the help of some of the
Planters.

TUESDAY, Feb. 20/Mar. 2
At anchorage.  Getting cannon ashore and
mounted.

WEDNESDAY, Feb. 21/Mar. 3
At anchorage.  The Master, with many of the
sailors, went on shore, taking one of the
great pieces called a minion, and with the
Planters drew it up the hill, with another
piece that lay on the shore, and mounted
them and a saller and two bases--five guns
--on the platform made for them.  A hard
day�s work.  The Master took on shore with
him a very fat goose he had shot, to which
the Planters added a fat crane, a mallard,
and a dried neat�s tongue (ox tongue), and
Planters and crew feasted together.  When
the Master went on shore, he sent off the
Governor to take the directions of Master
Mullens as to his property, as he was lying
near to death,--as also Master White.
Master Mullens dictated his will to the
Governor, which  he noted down, and  Giles
Heale, the chirurgeon, and Christopher
Joanes, of the crew, witnessed, they being
left aboard to care for the sick, keep the
ship, etc.  Master Mullens and Master White
both died this day.  Two others also died.
Got the men aboard about nightfall.

