THURSDAY, Mar. 1/11
At anchorage.  Blustering but milder
weather.

FRIDAY, Mar. 2/12

At anchorage.  Same.

SATURDAY, Mar. 3/13
At anchorage.  Wind south.  Morning misty
[foggy].  Towards noon warm and fine
weather.  At one o�clock it thundered.  The
first heard.  It rained sadly from two
o�clock till midnight.  Fetched wood and
water.

SUNDAY, Mar. 4/14
At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  The twelfth
Sunday in this harbor.  Cooler.  Clear
weather.

MONDAY, Mar. 5/15
At anchorage.  Rough weather.

TUESDAY, Mar. 6/16
At anchorage.  Same.

WEDNESDAY, Mar. 7/17
At anchor in harbor.  Wind full east, cold
but fair.  The Governor went this day with
a party of five, to the great ponds,
discovered by one of the ship�s mates and
Francis Billington.  Some planting done in
the settlement.

THURSDAY, Mar. 8/18
At anchor in harbor.  Rough easterly
weather.

FRIDAY, Mar. 9/19
At anchorage.  Same.  Many sick aboard.

SATURDAY, Mar. 10/20
At anchorage.  Same.  Fetched wood and
water.

SUNDAY, Mar. 11/21
At anchorage, Plymouth harbor.  The
thirteenth Sunday the ship has lain in this
harbor.  Many of crew yet ill, including
boatswain.

MONDAY, Mar. 12/22
At anchorage.  Easterly weather.

TUESDAY, Mar. 13/23
At anchorage.  The sickness and mortality
on ship and on shore continue.

WEDNESDAY, Mar. 14/24
At anchorage.  Same.

THURSDAY, Mar. 15/25
At anchorage.  Same.

FRIDAY, Mar. 16/26
At anchorage.  A fair, warm day, towards
noon.  The Master and others went ashore to
the general meeting.  The plantation was
startled this morning by a visit from an
Indian who spoke some English and bade
�Welcome.�  He is from Monhiggon, an island
to the eastward some days� sail, near where
Sir Ferdinando Gorges had a settlement.  He
was friendly, and having had much
intercourse with Englishmen who came to
fish in those parts, very comfortable with
them.  He saw the ship in the harbor from a
distance and supposed her to be a fishing
vessel.  He told the Governor that the
plantation was formerly called �Patuxet�
[or Apaum], and that all its inhabitants
had been carried off by a plague about four
years ago.  All the afternoon was spent in
communication with him.  The Governor
purposed sending him aboard the ship at
night, and he was well content to go and
went aboard the shallop to come to the
ship, but the wind was high and water scant
[low], so that the shallop could not go to
the ship.  The Governor sent him to Master
Hopkins�s house and set a watch over him.

