and they saluted each other, and the guard
conducted the Sagamore to one of the new
houses then building, where were placed a
green rug and three or four cushions.  Then
came the Governor with drum and trumpet,
and a guard of musketeers, and they drank
to each other in some strong waters, and
the Governor gave the king and his
followers meat, and they made a treaty in
King James�s name, and drank tobacco
together. His face was painted a sad red,
and his head and face were oiled, which
made him look greasy.  All his followers
were more or less painted.  So after all
was done, the Governor conducted him to the
brook, and his brother came, and was also
feasted, and then conveyed him to the
brook, and Master Winslow returned.
Samoset and Squanto stayed in the town and
the Indians stayed all night in the woods
half a mile away.  The last of the
colonists on board the ship went ashore to
remain to-day.

FRIDAY, Mar. 23/Apr. 2
At anchor.  A fair day.  Some of the ship�s
company went on shore.  Some of the Indians
came again, and Captain Standish and Master
Allerton went to see the king, and were
welcomed by him.  This morning the Indians
stayed till ten or eleven of the clock, and
the Governor, sending for the king�s
kettle, filled it with pease, and they went
their way?  Making ready for sea, getting
ballast, wood, and water from the shore,
etc.  The Planters held a meeting and
concluded both of military orders and some
laws, and chose as Governor, for the coming
year, Master John Carver, who was
�governor� on the ship.

SATURDAY, Mar. 24/April 3
At anchorage.  The ship�s company busy with
preparations for the return voyage,
bringing ballast, wood, and water from the
shore, etc., the ship having no lading for
the return.  This day died, on shore,
Mistress Elizabeth Winslow, wife of Master
Winslow.  Many still sick.  More on the
ship than on shore.

SUNDAY, Mar. 25/April 4
At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  The
fifteenth Sunday in this port.  Many of the
crew dead and some still sick, but the
sickness and mortality lessening.

