V.  The Letter of Robert Cushman to the Leyden Leaders, Sunday, June
11/21, 1620;

VI.  The Letter of Rev. John Robinson to John Carver at London, June
14/24, 1620;

VII.  The Letter of the Planters to the Merchant Adventurers from
Southamp ton, August 3, 1620;

VIII.  The Letter of Robert Cushman (from Dartmouth) to Edward
Southworth, Thursday, August 17,1620;

IX.  The MAY-FLOWER Compact;

X.  The Nuncupative Will of Master William Mullens; and

XI.  The Letter of �One of the Chiefe of ye Companie� (The Merchant
Adventurers), dated at London, April 9, 1623--

Many other early original documents frequently referred to in this volume
are of no less interest than those here given, but most of them have
either had such publication as to be more generally known or accessible,
or involve space and cost disproportionate to their value in this
connection.


I
THE AGREEMENT OF THE MERCHANT ADVENTURERS AND PLANTERS

Anno: 1620, July 1.

1.  The adventurers & planters doe agree, that every person that goeth
being aged 16. years & upward, be rated at 10li., and ten pounds to be
accounted a single share.

2.  That he goeth in person, and furnisheth him selfe out with 10li.
either in money or other provisions, be accounted as haveing 20li. in
stock, and in ye devission shall receive a double share.

3.  The persons transported & ye adventurers shall continue their joynt
stock & partnership togeather, ye space of 7 years, (excepte some
unexpected impedimente doe cause ye whole company to agree otherwise,)
during which time, all profits & benifits that are gott by trade,
traffick, trucking, working, fishing, or any other means of any person or
persons, remaine still in ye comone stock untill ye division.

4.  That at their coming ther, they chose out such a number of fitt
persons, as may furnish their ships and boats for fishing upon ye sea;
imploying the rest of their severall faculties upon ye land; as building
houses, tilling, and planting ye ground, & makeing shuch comodities as
shall be most usefull for ye collonie.

