But did all that money flie to Hamton, or was it his owne?  Who will goe
lay out money so rashly & lavishly as he did, and never know how he comes
by it, or on what conditions?  I tould him of ye alteration longe
agoe, & he was contente; but now he dominires, & said I had betrayed them
into ye hands of slaves; he is not beholden to them, he can set out 2
ships him selfe to a viage.  When, good man?  He hath but 50li. in, & if
he should give up his accounts he would not have a penie left him,
--[ï¿½This  was  found  true  afterwards.]   W[illiam]  B[radford]]--as I
am persuaded, &c.  Freind, if ever we make a plantation, God works a
mirakle; especially considering how scante we shall be of victualls, and
most of all ununited amongst our selves, & devoyd of good tutors and
regimente.  Violence will break all.  Wher is ye meek & humble spirite of
Moyses? & of Nehemiah who reedified ye wals of Jerusalem, and ye state of
Israell?  Is not ye sound of Rehoboams braggs daly hear amongst us?  Have
not ye philosophers and all wise men observed yt, even in setled comone
welths, violente governours bring either them selves, or people, or
boath, to ruine; how much more in ye raising of comone wealths, when ye
mortar is yet scarce tempered yt should bind ye wales [walls].  If I
should write to you of all things which promiscuously forerune our ruine,
I should over charge my weake head and greeve your tender hart; only
this, I pray you prepare for evill tidings of us every day.  But pray for
us instantly, it may be ye Lord will be yet entreated one way or other to
make for us.  I see not in reason how we shall escape even ye gasping of
hunger starved persons; but God can doe much, & his will be done.  It is
better for me to dye, then now for me to bear it, which I doe daly, &
expect it howerly; haveing received ye sentance of death, both within me
& with out me.  Poore William Ring & my selfe doe strive who shall be
meate first for ye fishes; but we looke for a glorious resurrection,
knowing Christ Jesus after ye flesh no more, but looking unto ye joye yt
is before us, we will endure all these things and accounte them light in
comparison of ye joye we hope for.  Remember me in all love to our
freinds as if I named them, whose praiers I desire earnestly, & wish
againe to see, but not till I can with more comforte looke them in ye
face.  The Lord give us that true comforte which none can take from us.
I had a desire to make a breefe relation of our estate to some freind.
I doubte not but your wisdome will teach you seasonably to utter things
as here after you shall be called to it.  That which I have writen is
treue, & many things more which I have for borne.  I write it as upon my
life, and last confession in England.  What is of use to be spoken of
presently, you may speake of it, and what is fitt to conceile, conceall.
Pass by my weake maner, for my head is weake, and my body feeble, ye Lord
make me strong in him, and keepe both you & yours.
Your loving freind,
ROBART CUSHMAN.

