This is a Coppye of Mr. Mullens his Will of all particulars he hathe
given.  In witnes whereof I have sette my hande John Carver, Giles Heale,
Christopher Joanes.�




XI
THE LETTER OF �ONE OF THE CHIEFE OF YE COMPANIE�
[THE MERCHANT ADVENTURERS]
DATED AT LONDON, APRIL 9, 1623

Loving friend, when I write my last leter, I hope to have received one
from you well-nigh by this time.  But when I write in Des: I little
thought to have seen Mr. John Pierce till he had brought some good
tidings from you.  But it pleased God, he brought us ye wofull tidings of
his returne when he was half-way over, by extraime tempest, werin ye
goodnes & mercie of God appeared in sparing their lives, being 109.
souls.  The loss is so great to Mr. Pierce &c., and ye companie put upon
so great charge, as veryly, &c. Now with great trouble & loss, we have
got Mr. John Pierce to assigne over ye grand patente to ye companie,
which he had taken in his owne name, and made quite voyd our former
grante.  I am sorie to writ how many hear thinke yt the hand of God was
justly against him, both ye first and 2. time of his returne; in regard
he, whom you and we so confidently trusted, but only to use his name for
ye company, should aspire to be lord over us all, and so make you & us
tenants at his will and pleasure, our assurance or patente being quite
voyd & disanuled by his means.  I desire to judg charitably of him.  But
his unwillingness to part with his royall lordship, and ye high rate he
set it at, which was 500li.  which cost him but 50li., maks many speake
and judg hardly of him.  The company are out for goods in his ship, with
charge aboute ye passengers, 640li., &c.

We have agreed with 2 merchants for a ship of 140 tunes, caled ye Anne,
which is to be ready ye last of this month, to bring 60 passengers &
60 tune of goods, &c--[Bradford, Historie, Mass.  ed.  p. 167.]



ADDENDA

Governor Winslow, in his �Hypocrisie Unmasked� (pp. 89,90), indicates
that the representatives of the Leyden congregation (Cushman and Carver)
sought the First (or London) Virginia Company as early as 1613.  It is
beyond doubt that preliminary steps toward securing the favor, both of
the King and others, were taken as early as 1617, and that the Wincob
Patent was granted in their interest, June 9/19, 1619.  But the Leyden
people were but little advanced by the issue of this Patent.  They became
discouraged, and began early in 1620 (perhaps earlier) negotiations with
the Dutch, which were in progress when, at the instance of Sir Ferdinando
Gorges, Thomas Weston undertook (February 2/12, April 1/11, 1620) to
secure the Leyden party, avowedly for the London Virginia Company, but
really for its rival, the Second Virginia Company, soon to be merged in
the �Council of Affairs for New England.�  It was then, and under these
influences, that the Leyden leaders �broke off,� as Bradford puts it,
their negotiations with the Dutch authorities, who, however, apparently
about the same time, determined to reject their propositions.  While the
renewal of the Leyden leaders� negotiations, through Weston, were, �on
their face� (and so far as the Pilgrims were concerned), with the First
Virginia Company, with whom, through Sir Edwin Sandys and other friends,
their original efforts were made, they were, as stated, subverted by
Gorges�s plans and Weston�s cooperation, in the interest of the Second
Virginia Company.  The Merchant Adventurers were represented, in the
direct negotiations for the Patent only, by John Pierce, who, at that
time, was apparently dealing honestly, and was not, so far as appears,
in Gorges�s confidence, though later he proved a traitor and a consummate
rascal, albeit he always acted, apparently, alone.  The so-called �Pierce
Patent� (which displaced the Wincob) was rendered worthless by the
landing of the Pilgrims north of 41 deg. north latitude.  The third
Patent (Pierce�s second) was from the Council for New England to Pierce,
for the colonists, but was exchanged by him for a �deed-pole� to himself,
though at last surrendered to the colony under stress.

