As we look at the manner in which the world has been opened out,
discovered, revealed, linked up, we shall find that this was brought
about as follows: The Southerners, then, were too content with their
Mediterranean to leave it in quest of other seas, while the Vikings
were exactly the reverse in their own sphere. Then comes the influence
of Christian devotion. Not merely the missionaries, but the bands
of pilgrims begin for the first time in their lives to travel long
distances. The Crusades astound the Crusaders themselves. They marvel
at the possibilities of the world. A permanent link is forged between
the North and the near East. The Bay of Biscay and the Mediterranean
are accomplished in safety. Why should they not come back again, after
their vows have been filled, to trade? They have fought, they have said
their prayers. Why might they not buy and sell? Thus there is formed a
connection between the Levant and England which time was to develop.

We see, then, the merchants of the world getting restless for greater
wealth: anxious for new markets for their wares, new places whence to
gather fresh imports. Owing to the natural dread of the sea the land
routes were frequently patronised in preference to the sea lanes,
though this was not always. Now the great treasure-house of the world
in menâ€™s estimation lay in India. There was to be found a rich store of
commodities, so thither merchants repaired by the long overland routes.
But there was a growing feeling among the Genoese, the Venetians, and
the Spanish that there ought to be a sea path to India just as there
was to Northern Europe. There was a great risk attached to the present
method of bringing goods across from India by land. There was the risk
of pilfering or of bandits, besides the great cost of transportation.
Furthermore, these sons of the Catholic Church longed to crush the
power of Islam, longed to place the ruling of the world in the hands
of a Christian Empire. It is necessary to bear in mind this potent
desire to find a sea route to India, because by this desire was given
an impetus which not only revealed India to seamen, but unfolded the
New World in the Western Hemisphere. As far back as the year A.D. 1281,
Vivaldi set forth from Genoa in his fruitless endeavour to reach the
Indies via the west coast of Africa; so also Malocello had sailed as
far as the Canary Isles about the year 1270; and there were numbers of
other gallant adventurers who had started forth optimistically. But the
sea route to India had not yet been ploughed by the ships of men.

