In the year 1441 still more southing was achieved when Gonzales and
Tristan reached Cape Blanco on the same West African coast. Three
years later and the River Gambia was discovered, and in 1446 the Cape
Verde Islands were visited. All this shows the considerable amount of
activity which went on during those years when the Prince was at the
head of his naval school. We can see, by referring to a map, how
steady and persistent was the advance along the west coast of this
unknown continent. But then there comes Henryâ€™s death, and there
follows a gap in this chain of discoveries. Still, before long this
series of southerly voyages was resumed. The aim was ever in the same
direction, but the cause of failure is unknown; whether they feared to
go too far, whether their provisions ran out, whether their crews were
diminished by sickness and death, whether they were not too sure of
the condition of their ships one cannot say. Their intention seems to
have been to proceed with caution, and possibly they aimed at a more
detailed exploration than some of their successors. Perhaps this was
owing to the instructions of the Prince.

At any rate, with the invaluable data which they brought back, each
expedition made it easier for the next, so that by the year 1470
the Portuguese were able to reach as far south as almost to the
Equator, and fourteen years later the Congo River was attained. But,
with so much successfully accomplished, the impetus to do very much
more became strong, and in 1486 the King of Portugal sent forth two
expeditions, having for their object the discovery of an eastern route
to India, and also to find if possible the whereabouts of a mysterious
personality, Prester John. The latter was not discovered. One of these
two expeditions proceeded through Egypt, then down the Red Sea, and
so across the Arabian Sea. Its members encountered many a hardship,
but they did succeed in making Calicut in the south-west of India.
The other expedition was under the leadership of Bartholomew Diaz. It
was of no great size, consisting merely of a couple of caravels and
one store-ship. This little squadron did not reach India, but made a
wonderful advance on all those previous voyages which had never got
further south than the Equator and the Congo. Diaz sailed south beyond
the latitude of the Cape of Good Hope, and doubled it without knowing
it. He coasted for a thousand miles along African shores which had
never been seen by European sailors hitherto. And although he was not
lucky enough to reach across to India, yet, when he returned, he had
the great happiness of realising that he had passed at last that cape
which is the southern African extremity. Probably you know the story:
how that Diaz, mindful of the bad weather for which this region is
famous, had called it the Cape of Torments, and how that the Portuguese
king would not suffer this to be the name, but rather that it should be
called the Cape of Good Hope, since the discovery was so promising.

