By the middle of the sixteenth century naval tactics in England had
advanced even further still, as the instructions issued in connection
with the Battle of Shoreham indicate. They are too long to detail here,
but it is noticeable that they show both a knowledge of the handling of
ships and a mind that has escaped from medieval muddle. The arranging
of the fleet in proper divisions, each with its own work to perform,
the exact position which was to be maintained, and so on, are well
worth consideration. And each division was to wear the St. Georgeâ€™s
ensign at a different place for purposes of recognition. Those in the
first rank were to fly it from the fore-topmast, those in the second
rank to wear it on the mainmast, and so on.

During the latter half of the sixteenth century, when the autumn came
round each year and most of the royal ships had ended their cruising
till the following spring, it was customary to take these vessels round
to the Medway. Even ships from Portsmouth were hither brought, and they
lay moored in Gillingham Reach. This made a convenient and sheltered
anchorage, and yet was not too far from the Tower of London. When the
time arrived again for fitting out, the ammunition was put on board
barges at the Tower and these, taking the ebb down the Thames and the
flood up the Medway, discharged their load when tied up alongside the
warships at Chatham.

The great achievements of the Elizabethan seamen could not have
occurred unless the English had been engaged in the seafaring life for
years, since it is impossible to make a landsman a sailor except after
much training. The Armada would never have been defeated except for
the superior seamanship and gunnery of our forefathers. Slowly, but
surely, since the history of our country began, there had been growing
up a nucleus of professional seamen. In Tudor times had there been no
race of freight-carriers and fishermen, there would have been no virile
body of men to fall back on in the hour of danger on the sea, for the
merchant sailor often enough had an exciting passage before he landed
his cargo safely in port. Both he and the simple fisherman were liable
to be assaulted on the sea by hordes of pirates. In the North Sea, the
English Channel (especially in the vicinity of the Scilly Isles, where
they swarmed), and off the Irish coast these sea-rovers were a terror
to the peaceful, honest seaman.

