
THE ISOTHERMAL LAW

The natural laws, long since promulgated by Boyle, Gay Lussac, and
others, on the subject of the expansion and compression of gases by
force and by heat, and their variable pressures and temperatures when
confined, are conceded to be practically true and applicable to all
gases, whether single, mixed, or combined.

The law formulated by Boyle only relates to the compression and
expansion of gases without a change of temperature, and is stated in
these words:

_If the temperature of a gas be kept constant, its pressure or elastic
force will vary inversely as the volume it occupies._

It is expressed in the formula P × V = C, or pressure × volume =
constant. Hence, C/P = V and C/V = P.

Thus the curve formed by increments of pressure during the expansion or
compression of a given volume of gas without change of temperature is
designated as the isothermal curve in which the volume multiplied by the
pressure is a constant value in expansion, and inversely the pressure
divided by the volume is a constant value in compressing a gas.

But as compression and expansion of gases require force for their
accomplishment mechanically, or by the application or abstraction of
heat chemically, or by convection, a second condition becomes involved,
which was formulated into a law of thermodynamics by Gay Lussac under
the following conditions: A given volume of gas under a free piston
expands by heat and contracts by the loss of heat, its volume causing a
proportional movement of a free piston equal to 1/273 part of the
cylinder volume for each degree Centigrade difference in temperature, or
1/492 part of its volume for each degree Fahrenheit. With a fixed piston
(constant volume), the pressure is increased or decreased by an increase
or decrease of heat in the same proportion of 1/273 part of its pressure
for each degree Centigrade, or 1/492 part of its pressure for each
degree Fahrenheit change in temperature. This is the natural sequence of
the law of mechanical equivalent, which is a necessary deduction from
the principle that nothing in nature can be lost or wasted, for all the
heat that is imparted to or abstracted from a gaseous body must be
accounted for, either as heat or its equivalent transformed into some
other form of energy. In the case of a piston moving in a cylinder by
the expansive force of heat in a gaseous body, all the heat expended in
expansion of the gas is turned into work; the balance must be accounted
for in absorption by the cylinder or radiation.

