For obtaining the volume of expansion of a gas from a given increment of
heat, we have the approximate formula:

Volume × absolute temp. + acquired temp.
II. ------------------------------------------ =
Absolute temp. + initial temp.

heated volume. In applying this formula to the foregoing example, the
figures become:

460.66° + 2000°
I. × ----------------- = 4.72604 volumes.
460.66 + 60°

From this last term the gauge pressure may be obtained as follows:

III. 4.72604 × 14.7 = 69.47 lbs. absolute - 14.7 lbs. atmospheric
pressure = 54.77 lbs. gauge pressure; which is the theoretical pressure
due to heating air in a confined space, or at constant volume from 60°
to 2000° F.

By inversion of the heat formula for absolute pressure we have the
formula for the acquired heat, derived from combustion at constant
volume from atmospheric pressure to gauge pressure plus atmospheric
pressure as derived from Example I., by which the expression

absolute pressure × absolute temp. + initial temp.
----------------------------------------------------
initial absolute pressure

= absolute temperature + temperature of combustion, from which the
acquired temperature is obtained by subtracting the absolute
temperature.

Then, for example, (69.47 × 460.66 + 60)/14.7 = 2460.66, and 2460.66 -
460.66 = 2000°, the theoretical heat of combustion. The dropping of
terminal decimals makes a small decimal difference in the result in the
different formulas.


HEAT AND ITS WORK

By Joule's law of the mechanical equivalent of heat, whenever heat is
imparted to an elastic body, as air or gas, energy is generated and
mechanical work produced by the expansion of the air or gas. When the
heat is imparted by combustion within a cylinder containing a movable
piston, the mechanical work becomes an amount measurable by the observed
pressure and movement of the piston. The heat generated by the explosive
elements and the expansion of the non-combining elements of nitrogen and
water vapor that may have been injected into the cylinder as moisture in
the air, and the water vapor formed by the union of the oxygen of the
air with the hydrogen of the gas, all add to the energy of the work from
their expansion by the heat of internal combustion. As against this, the
absorption of heat by the walls of the cylinder, the piston, and
cylinder-head or clearance walls, becomes a modifying condition in the
force imparted to the moving piston.

