It is found that when any explosive mixture of air and gas or
hydrocarbon vapor is fired, the pressure falls far short of the pressure
computed from the theoretical effect of the heat produced, and from
gauging the expansion of the contents of a cylinder. It is now well
known that in practice the high efficiency which is promised by
theoretical calculation is never realized; but it must always be
remembered that the heat of combustion is the real agent, and that the
gases and vapors are but the medium for the conversion of inert elements
of power into the activity of energy by their chemical union. The theory
of combustion has been the leading stimulus to large expectations with
inventors and constructors of explosive motors; its entanglement with
the modifying elements in practice has delayed the best development in
construction, and as yet no really positive design of best form or
action seems to have been accomplished, although great progress has been
made during the past decade in the development of speed, reliability,
economy, and power output of the individual units of this comparatively
new power.

One of the most serious difficulties in the practical development of
pressure, due to the theoretical computations of the pressure value of
the full heat, is probably caused by imparting the heat of the fresh
charge to the balance of the previous charge that has been cooled by
expansion from the maximum pressure to near the atmospheric pressure of
the exhaust. The retardation in the velocity of combustion of perfectly
mixed elements is now well known from experimental trials with measured
quantities; but the principal difficulty in applying these conditions to
the practical work of an explosive engine where a necessity for a large
clearance space cannot be obviated, is in the inability to obtain a
maximum effect from the imperfect mixture and the mingling of the
products of the last explosion with the new mixture, which produces a
clouded condition that makes the ignition of the mass irregular or
chattering, as observed in the expansion lines of indicator cards; but
this must not be confounded with the reaction of the spring in the
indicator.

