In experiments made by Dugald Clerk, in England, with a combustion
chamber equal to 0.6 of the space swept by the piston, with a
compression of 38 lbs., the consumption of gas was 24 cubic feet per
indicated horse-power per hour. With 0.4 compression space and 61 lbs.
compression, the consumption of gas was 20 cubic feet per indicated
horse-power per hour; and with 0.34 compression space and 87 lbs.
compression, the consumption of gas fell to 14.8 cubic feet per
indicated horse-power per hour--the actual efficiencies being
respectively 17, 21, and 25 per cent. This was with a Crossley
four-cycle engine.


VARIOUS MEASURES OF EFFICIENCY

The efficiencies in regard to power in a heat-engine may be divided
into four kinds, as follows: I. The first is known as the _maximum
theoretical efficiency_ of a perfect engine (represented by the
lines in the indicator diagram). It is expressed by the formula
(T_{1} - T_{0})/T_{1} and shows the work of a perfect cycle in an engine
working between the received temperature + absolute temperature (T_{1})
and the initial atmospheric temperature + absolute temperature (T_{0}).
II. The second is the _actual heat efficiency_, or the ratio of the heat
turned into work to the total heat received by the engine. It expresses
the _indicated horse-power_. III. The third is the ratio between the
second or _actual heat efficiency_ and the first or _maximum theoretical
efficiency_ of a perfect cycle. It represents the greatest possible
utilization of the power of heat in an internal-combustion engine. IV.
The fourth is the _mechanical efficiency_. This is the ratio between the
actual horse-power delivered by the engine through a dynamometer or
measured by a brake (brake horse-power), and the indicated horse-power.
The difference between the two is the power lost by engine friction. In
regard to the general heat efficiency of the materials of power in
explosive engines, we find that with good illuminating gas the practical
efficiency varies from 25 to 40 per cent.; kerosene-motors, 20 to 30;
gasoline-motors, 20 to 32; acetylene, 25 to 35; alcohol, 20 to 30 per
cent. of their heat value. The great variation is no doubt due to
imperfect mixtures and variable conditions of the old and new charge in
the cylinder; uncertainty as to leakage and the perfection of
combustion. In the Diesel motors operating under high pressure, up to
nearly 500 pounds, an efficiency of 36 per cent. is claimed.

