[Illustration: Fig. 12.--Graphic Diagram Showing Approximate Utilization
of Fuel Burned in Internal-Combustion Engine.]

The graphic diagram at Fig. 12 is of special value as it shows clearly
how the heat produced by charge combustion is expended in an engine of
average design.

On general principles the greater difference between the heat of
combustion and the heat at exhaust is the relative measure of the heat
turned into work, which represents the degree of efficiency without loss
during expansion. The mathematical formulas appertaining to the
computation of the element of heat and its work in an explosive engine
are in a large measure dependent upon assumed values, as the conditions
of the heat of combustion are made uncertain by the mixing of the fresh
charge with the products of a previous combustion, and by absorption,
radiation, and leakage. The computation of the temperature from the
observed pressure may be made as before explained, but for
compression-engines the needed starting-points for computation are very
uncertain, and can only be approximated from the exact measure and value
of the elements of combustion in a cylinder charge.


TEMPERATURES AND PRESSURES

Owing to the decrease from atmospheric pressure in the indrawing charge
of the cylinder, caused by valve and frictional obstruction, the
compression seldom starts above 13 lbs. absolute, especially in
high-speed engines. Col. 3 in the following table represents the
approximate absolute compression pressure for the clearance percentage
and ratio in Cols. 1 and 2, while Col. 4 indicates the gauge pressure
from the atmospheric line. The temperatures in Col. 5 are due to the
compression in Col. 3 from an assumed temperature of 560Â° F. in the
mixture of the fresh charge of 6 air to 1 gas with the products of
combustion left in the clearance chamber from the exhaust stroke of a
medium-speed motor. This temperature is subject to considerable
variation from the difference in the heat-unit power of the gases and
vapors used for explosive power, as also of the cylinder-cooling effect.
In Col. 6 is given the approximate temperatures of explosion for a
mixture of air 6 to gas 1 of 660 heat units per cubic foot, for the
relative values of the clearance ratio in Col. 2 at constant volume.

