P_{2} = P_{1} (V_{1}/V_{2})^{1.4}                                  1

which is for adiabatic compression of air. Equation (1) is right enough
in general form but gives results which are entirely too high, as
almost all designers know from experience. The trouble lies in the
interchange of heat between the compressed gases and the cylinder walls,
in the diminution of the exponent (1.4 in the above) due to the lesser
ratio of specific heat of gasoline vapor and in the transfer of heat
from the gases which are being compressed to whatever fuel may enter the
cylinder in an unvaporized condition. Also, there is always some piston
leakage, and, if the form of the equation (1) is to be retained, this
also tends to lower the value of the exponent. From experience with many
engines, it appears that compression reaches its highest value in the
cylinder for but a short range of motor speeds, usually during the
mid-range. Also, it appears that, at those speeds at which compression
shows its highest values, the initial pressure at the start of the
compression stroke is from .5 to .9 lb. below atmospheric. Taking this
latter loss value, which shows more often than those of lesser value,
the compression is seen to start from an initial pressure of 13.9 lbs.
per sq. in. absolute.

Also, experiment shows that if the exponent be given the value 1.26,
instead of 1.4, the equation will embrace all heat losses in the
compressed gas, and compensate for the changed ratio of specific heats
for the mixture and also for all piston leakage, in the average engine
with rings in good condition and tight. In the light of the foregoing,
and in view of results obtained from its use, the above curve is
offered--values of P_{2} being found from the equation

P_{2} = 13.8 (V_{1}/V_{2})^{1.26}

In using this curve it must be remembered that pressures are absolute.
Thus: suppose it is desired to know the volumetric relationships of the
cylinder for a compression pressure of 75 lbs. gauge. Add atmospheric
pressure to the desired gauge pressure 14.7 + 75 = 89.7 lbs. absolute.
Locate this pressure on the scale of ordinates and follow horizontally
across to the curve and then vertically downward to the scale of
abscissas, where the ratio of the combustion chamber volume to the total
cylinder volume is given, which latter is equal to the sum of the
combustion chamber volume and that of the piston sweep. In the above
case it is found that the combustion space for a compression pressure of
75 lbs. gauge will be .225 of the total cylinder volume, or .225 รท .775
= .2905 of the piston sweep volume. Conversely, knowing the volumetric
ratios, compression pressure can be read directly by proceeding from the
scale of abscissas vertically to the curve and thence horizontally to
the scale of ordinates.

