
CAUSES OF HEAT LOSS AND INEFFICIENCY IN EXPLOSIVE MOTORS

The difference realized in the practical operation of an internal
combustion heat engine from the computed effect derived from the values
of the explosive elements is probably the most serious difficulty that
engineers have encountered in their endeavors to arrive at a rational
conclusion as to where the losses were located, and the ways and means
of design that would eliminate the causes of loss and raise the
efficiency step by step to a reasonable percentage of the total
efficiency of a perfect cycle.

An authority on the relative condition of the chemical elements under
combustion in closed cylinders attributes the variation of temperature
shown in the fall of the expansion curve, and the suppression or
retarded evolution of heat, entirely to the cooling action of the
cylinder walls, and to this nearly all the phenomena hitherto obscure in
the cylinder of a gas-engine. Others attribute the great difference
between the theoretical temperature of combustion and the actual
temperature realized in the practical operation of the gas-engine, a
loss of more than one-half of the total heat energy of the combustibles,
partly to the dissociation of the elements of combustion at extremely
high temperatures and their reassociation by expansion in the cylinder,
to account for the supposed continued combustion and extra adiabatic
curve of the expansion line on the indicator card.

[Illustration: Fig. 17.--The Thompson Indicator, an Instrument for
Determining Compressions and Explosion Pressure Values and Recording
Them on Chart.]

The loss of heat to the walls of the cylinder, piston, and clearance
space, as regards the proportion of wall surface to the volume, has
gradually brought this point to its smallest ratio in the concave
piston-head and globular cylinder-head, with the smallest possible space
in the inlet and exhaust passage. The wall surface of a cylindrical
clearance space or combustion chamber of one-half its unit diameter in
length is equal to 3.1416 square units, its volume but 0.3927 of a cubic
unit; while the same wall surface in a spherical form has a volume of
0.5236 of a cubic unit. It will be readily seen that the volume is
increased 33-1/3 per cent. in a spherical over a cylindrical form for
equal wall surfaces at the moment of explosion, when it is desirable
that the greatest amount of heat is generated, and carrying with it the
greatest possible pressure from which the expansion takes place by the
movement of the piston.

