For a given amount of heat taken from the cylinder by the largest volume
of circulating water, the difference in temperature between inlet and
outlet of the water-jacket should be the least possible, and this
condition of the water circulation gives a more even temperature to all
parts of the cylinder; while, on the contrary, a cold-water supply, say
at 60Â° F., so slow as to allow the ejected water to flow off at a
temperature near the boiling-point, must make a great difference in
temperature between the bottom and top of the cylinder, with a loss in
economy in gas and other fuels, as well as in water, if it is obtained
by measurement.

From the foregoing considerations of losses and inefficiencies, we find
that the practice in motor design and construction has not yet reached
the desired perfection in its cycular operation. Step by step
improvements have been made with many changes in design though many have
been without merit as an improvement, farther than to gratify the
longings of designers for something different from the other thing, and
to establish a special construction of their own. These efforts may in
time produce a motor of normal or standard design for each kind of fuel
that will give the highest possible efficiency for all conditions of
service.




CHAPTER IV

Engine Parts and Functions--Why Multiple Cylinder Engines Are
Best--Describing Sequence of Operations--Simple Engines--Four
and Six Cylinder Vertical Tandem Engines--Eight and Twelve
Cylinder V Engines--Radial Cylinder Arrangement--Rotary Cylinder
Forms.


ENGINE PARTS AND FUNCTIONS

The principal elements of a gas engine are not difficult to understand
and their functions are easily defined. In place of the barrel of the
gun one has a smoothly machined cylinder in which a small cylindrical or
barrel-shaped element fitting the bore closely may be likened to a
bullet or cannon ball. It differs in this important respect, however, as
while the shot is discharged from the mouth of the cannon the piston
member sliding inside of the main cylinder cannot leave it, as its
movements back and forth from the open to the closed end and back again
are limited by simple mechanical connection or linkage which comprises
crank and connection rod. It is by this means that the reciprocating
movement of the piston is transformed into a rotary motion of the
crank-shaft.

