[Illustration: Fig. 33.--The Hall-Scott Four-Cylinder 100 Horse-Power
Aviation Motor.]

[Illustration: Fig. 34.--Two Views of the Duesenberg Sixteen Valve
Four-Cylinder Aviation Motor.]

The demand of aircraft designers for more power has stimulated designers
to work out twelve-cylinder motors. These are high-speed motors
incorporating all recent features of design in securing light
reciprocating parts, large valve openings, etc. The twelve-cylinder
motor incorporates the best features of high-speed motor design and
there is no need at this time to discuss further the pros and cons of
the twelve-cylinder versus the eight or six, because it is conceded by
all that there is the same degree of steady power application in the
twelve over the eight as there would be in the eight over the six. The
question resolves itself into having a motor of high power that will
run with minimum vibration and that produces smooth action. This is well
shown by diagrams at Fig. 31. It should be remembered that if an
eight-cylinder engine will give four explosions per revolution of the
fly-wheel, a twelve-cylinder type will give six explosions per
revolution, and instead of the impulses coming 90 degrees crank travel
apart, as in the case of the eight-cylinder, these will come but 60
degrees of crank travel apart in the case of the twelve-cylinder. For
this reason, the cylinders of a twelve are usually separated by 60
degrees while the eight has the blocks spaced 90 degrees apart. The
comparison can be easily made by comparing the sectional views of Vee
engines at Fig. 32. When one realizes that the actual duration of the
power stroke is considerably greater than 120 degrees crank travel, it
will be apparent that the overlapping of explosions must deliver a very
uniform application of power. Vee engines have been devised having the
cylinders spaced but 45 degrees apart, but the explosions cannot be
timed at equal intervals as when 90 degrees separate the cylinder center
lines.

