[Illustration: Fig. 35.--The Hall-Scott Six-Cylinder Aviation Engine.]


RADIAL CYLINDER ARRANGEMENTS

[Illustration: Fig. 36.--The Curtiss Eight-Cylinder, 200 Horse-Power
Aviation Engine.]

While the fixed cylinder forms of engines, having the cylinders in
tandem in the four- and six-cylinder models as shown at Figs. 33 to 35
inclusive and the eight-cylinder V types as outlined at Figs. 36 and 37
have been generally used and are most in favor at the present time,
other forms of motors having unconventional cylinder arrangements have
been devised, though most of these are practically obsolete. While many
methods of decreasing weight and increasing mechanical efficiency of a
motor are known to designers, one of the first to be applied to the
construction of aeronautical power plants was an endeavor to group the
components, which in themselves were not extremely light, into a form
that would be considerably lighter than the conventional design. As an
example, we may consider those multiple-cylinder forms in which the
cylinders are disposed around a short crank-case, either radiating from
a common center as at Fig. 38 or of the fan shape shown at Fig. 39. This
makes it possible to use a crank-case but slightly larger than that
needed for one or two cylinders and it also permits of a corresponding
decrease in length of the crank-shaft. The weight of the engine is
lessened because of the reduction in crank-shaft and crank-case weight
and the elimination of a number of intermediate bearings and their
supporting webs which would be necessary with the usual tandem
construction. While there are six power impulses to every two
revolutions of the crank-shaft, in the six-cylinder engine, they are
not evenly spaced as is possible with the conventional arrangement.

[Illustration: Fig. 37.--The Sturtevant Eight-Cylinder, High Speed
Aviation Motor.]

[Illustration: Fig. 38.--Anzani 40-50 Horse-Power Five-Cylinder Air
Cooled Engine.]

In the Anzani form, which is shown at Fig. 38, the crank-case is
stationary and a revolving crank-shaft is employed as in conventional
construction. The cylinders are five in number and the engine develops
40 to 50 H.P. with a weight of 72 kilograms or 158.4 lbs. The cylinders
are of the usual air-cooled form having cooling flanges only part of the
way down the cylinder. By using five cylinders it is possible to have
the power impulses come regularly, they coming 145Â° crank-shaft travel
apart, the crank-shaft making two turns to every five explosions. The
balance is good and power output regular. The valves are placed
directly in the cylinder head and are operated by a common pushrod.
Attention is directed to the novel method of installing the carburetor
which supplies the mixture to the engine base from which inlet pipes
radiate to the various cylinders. This engine is used on French school
machines.

