
DISTILLATES OF CRUDE PETROLEUM

Crude petroleum is found in small quantities in almost all parts of the
world, but a large portion of that produced commercially is derived from
American wells. The petroleum obtained in this country yields more of
the volatile products than those of foreign production, and for that
reason the demand for it is greater. The oil fields of this country are
found in Pennsylvania, Indiana, and Ohio, and the crude petroleum is
usually in association with natural gas. This mineral oil is an agent
from which many compounds and products are derived, and the products
will vary from heavy sludges, such as asphalt, to the lighter and more
volatile components, some of which will evaporate very easily at
ordinary temperatures.

The compounds derived from crude petroleum are composed principally of
hydrogen and carbon and are termed "Hydrocarbons." In the crude product
one finds many impurities, such as free carbon, sulphur, and various
earthy elements. Before the oil can be utilized it must be subjected to
a process of purifying which is known as refining, and it is during this
process, which is one of destructive distillation, that the various
liquids are separated. The oil was formerly broken up into three main
groups of products as follows: Highly volatile, naphtha, benzine,
gasoline, eight to ten per cent. Light oils, such as kerosene and light
lubricating oils seventy to eighty per cent. Heavy oils or residuum five
to nine per cent. From the foregoing it will be seen that the available
supply of gasoline is determined largely by the demand existing for the
light oils forming the larger part of the products derived from crude
petroleum. New processes have been recently discovered by which the
lighter oils, such as kerosene, are reduced in proportion and that of
gasoline increased, though the resulting liquid is neither the high
grade, volatile gasoline known in the early days of motoring nor the low
grade kerosene.

