While one does not usually consider air as having much weight, at a
temperature of sixty-two degrees Fahrenheit about fourteen cubic feet of
air will weigh a pound, and to burn a pound of gasoline one would
require about two hundred cubic feet of air. This amount will provide
for combustion theoretically, but it is common practice to allow twice
this amount because the element nitrogen, which is the main constituent
of air, is an inert gas and instead of aiding combustion it acts as a
deterrent of burning. In order to be explosive, gasoline vapor must be
combined with definite quantities of air. Mixtures that are rich in
gasoline ignite quicker than those which have more air, but these are
only suitable when starting or when running slowly, as a rich mixture
ignites much quicker than a weak mixture. The richer mixture of gasoline
and air not only burns quicker but produces the most heat and the most
effective pressure in pounds per square inch of piston top area.

The amount of compression of the charge before ignition also has
material bearing on the force of the explosion. The higher the degree of
compression the greater the force exerted by the rapid combustion of the
gas. It may be stated that as a general thing the maximum explosive
pressure is somewhat more than four times the compression pressure prior
to ignition. A charge compressed to sixty pounds will have a maximum of
approximately two hundred and forty pounds; compacted to eighty pounds
it will produce a pressure of about three hundred pounds on each square
inch of piston area at the beginning of the power stroke. Mixtures
varying from one part of gasoline vapor to four of air to others having
one part of gasoline vapor to thirteen of air can be ignited, but the
best results are obtained when the proportions are one to five or one to
seven, as this mixture is said to be the one that will produce the
highest temperature, the quickest explosion, and the most pressure.


WHAT A CARBURETOR SHOULD DO

