
MASTER MULTIPLE-JET CARBURETOR

[Illustration: Fig. 49.--The Master Carburetor.]

This carburetor, shown in detail in Figs. 49 and 50, has been very
popular in racing cars and aviation engines because of exceptionally
good pick-up qualities and its thorough atomization of fuel. Its
principle of operation is the breaking up of the fuel by a series of
jets, which vary in number from fourteen to twenty-one, according to
the size of the carburetor. These are uncovered by opening the throttle,
which is curved--a patented feature--to secure the correct progression
of jets. The carburetor has an eccentric float chamber, from which the
gasoline is led to the jet piece from which the jets stand up in a row.
The tops of these jets are closed until the throttle is opened far
enough to pass them, which it does progressively. The air opening is at
the bottom, and the throttle opening is such that a modified venturi is
formed. The throttle is carried in a cylindrical barrel with the jets
placed below it, and the passage from the barrel to the intake is
arranged so that there is no interruption in the flow. For easy starting
a dash-controlled shutter closes off the air, throwing the suction on
the jets, thus giving a rich mixture.

[Illustration: Fig. 50.--Sectional View of Master Carburetor Showing
Parts.]

The only adjustment is for idling, and once that is fixed it need never
be touched. This is in the form of a screw and regulates the position of
the throttle when at idling position. The dash control has high-speed,
normal and rich-starting positions. In installing the Master carburetor
the float chamber may be turned either toward the radiator or driver's
seat. If the float is turned toward the radiator, however, a forward lug
plate should be ordered; otherwise it will be difficult to install the
control. The throttle lever must go all the way to the stop lug or
maximum power will not be secured. In adjusting the idle screw it is
turned in for rich and out for lean.

