[Illustration: Fig. 56.--Chart Showing Diminution of Air Pressure as
Altitude Increases.]


HOW HIGH ALTITUDE AFFECTS POWER

Any internal combustion engine will show less power at high altitudes
than it will deliver at sea level, and this has caused a great deal of
questioning. "There is a good reason for this," says a writer in "Motor
Age," "and it is a physical impossibility for the engine to do
otherwise. The difference is due to the lower atmospheric pressure the
higher up we get. That is, at sea level the atmosphere has a pressure of
14.7 pounds per square inch; at 5,000 feet above sea level the pressure
is approximately 12.13 pounds per square inch, and at 10,000 feet it is
10 pounds per square inch. From this it will be seen that the final
pressure attained after the piston has driven the gas into compressed
condition ready for firing is lower as the atmospheric pressure drops.
This means that there is not so much power in the compressed charge of
gas the higher up you get above sea level.

"For example, suppose the compression ratio to be 4-1/2 to 1; in other
words, suppose the air space above the piston to have 4-1/2 times the
volume when the piston is at the bottom of its stroke that it has when
the piston is at the top of the stroke. That is a common compression
ratio for an average motor, and is chosen because it is considered to be
the best for maximum horse-power and in order that the compression
pressure will not be so high as to cause pre-ignition. Knowing the
compression ratio, we can determine the final pressure immediately
before ignition by substituting in the standard formula:

P^{1} = P(V/V^{1})^{1.3}

in which P is the atmospheric pressure; P^{1} is the final pressure, and
V/V^{1} is the compression ratio, therefore P^{1} = 14.7 (4.5)^{1.3} =
104 pounds per square inch, absolute.

"That is, 104 pounds per square inch is the most efficient final
compression pressure to have for this engine at sea level, since it
comes directly from the compression ratio.

