"Now supposing we consider that the altitude is 7,000 feet above sea
level. At this height the atmospheric pressure is 11.25 pounds per
square inch, approximately. In this case we can again substitute in the
formula, using the new atmospheric pressure figure. The equation
becomes:

P^{1} = 11.25 (4.5)^{1.3}--79.4 pounds per square inch, absolute.

"Therefore we now have a final compression pressure of only 79.4 pounds
per square inch, which is considerably below the pressure we have just
found to be the most efficient for the motor. The resulting power drop
is evident.

"It should be borne in mind that these final compression pressures are
absolute pressures--that is, they include the atmospheric pressure. In
the first case, to get the pressure above atmospheric you would subtract
14.7 and in the latter 11.25 would have to be deducted. In other words,
where the sea level compression is 89.3 pounds per square inch above the
atmosphere, the same motor will have only a compression pressure of
68.15 pounds per square inch above the atmosphere at 7,000 feet
elevation.

"From the above it is evident that in order to bring the final
compression pressure up to the efficient figure we have determined, a
different compression ratio would have to be used. That is, the final
volume would have to be less, and as it is impossible to vary this to
meet the conditions of altitude, the loss of power cannot be helped
except by the replacing of the standard pistons with some that are
longer above the wrist-pin so as to reduce the space above the pistons
when on top center. Then if the ratio is thereby raised to some such
figures as 5 to 1, the engine will again have its proper final pressure,
but it will still not have as much power as it would have at sea level,
since the horse-power varies directly with the atmospheric pressure,
final compression being kept constant. That is, at 7,000 feet the
horse-power of an engine that had 40 horse-power at sea level would be
equal to

