"In any case, at present, the higher one goes the more the
power of the engine is reduced, for less air means a less volume
of mixture per cylinder, and as the petrol feed has to be
starved to suit the smaller amount of air available, this means
further loss of power. I do not know whether anyone has evolved
a carburetor which automatically starves the gasoline feed when
high up, but it seems possible that when an airplane is sagging
about 'up against the ceiling'--as a French pilot described the
absolute limit of climb for his particular machine--it might be
a good thing to have the jets in front of the float chamber, for
then a certain amount of automatic starvation would take place.

"When a machine is right up at its limiting height, and the
pilot is doing his best to make it go higher still, it is
probably flying with its tail as low as the pilot dares to let
it go, and the lateral and longitudinal controls are on the
verge of vanishing, so that if the carburetor jets are behind
the float chambers there is bound to be an over-rich mixture in
any case. There is even a possibility of a careless or ignorant
pilot carrying on in this tail-down position till one set of
cylinders cuts out altogether, in which case the carburetor
feeding that set may flood over, just as if the machine were on
the ground, and the whole thing may catch fire. Whereas, with
the jets in front of the floats, though the mixture may starve a
trifle, there is, at any rate, no danger of fire through
climbing with the tail down.


_A Diving Danger_

"On the other hand, in a 'pusher' with this type of engine, if
the jets are in their normal position--which is in front of the
floats--there is danger of fire in a dive. That is to say, if
the pilot throttles right down, or switches off and relies on
air pressure on his propeller to start the engine again, so that
the gasoline is flooding over out of the jets instead of being
sucked into the engine, there may be flooding over the magnetos
if the dive is very steep and prolonged. In any case, a long
dive will mean a certain amount of flooding, and, probably, a
good deal of choking and spitting by the engine before it gets
rid of the over-rich mixture and picks up steady firing again.
Which may indicate to young pilots that it is not good to come
down too low under such circumstances, trusting entirely to
their engines to pick up at once and get going before they hit
the ground.

