


CHAPTER VI

Early Ignition Systems--Electrical Ignition Best--Fundamentals
of Magnetism Outlined--Forms of Magneto--Zones of Magnetic
Influence--How Magnets are Made--Electricity and Magnetism
Related--Basic Principles of Magneto Action--Essential Parts of
Magneto and Functions--Transformer Coil Systems--True High
Tension Type--The Berling Magneto--Timing and Care--The Dixie
Magneto--Spark Plug Design and Application--Two-Spark Ignition--
Special Airplane Plug.


EARLY IGNITION SYSTEMS

One of the most important auxiliary groups of the gasoline engine
comprising the airplane power plant and one absolutely necessary to
insure engine action is the ignition system or the method employed of
kindling the compressed gas in the cylinder to produce an explosion and
useful power. The ignition system has been fully as well developed as
other parts of the engine, and at the present time practically all
ignition systems follow principles which have become standard through
wide acceptance.

During the early stages of development of the gasoline engine various
methods of exploding the charge of combustible gas in the cylinder were
employed. On some of the earliest engines a flame burned close to the
cylinder head, and at the proper time for ignition a slide or valve
moved to provide an opening which permitted the flame to ignite the gas
back of the piston. This system was practical only on the primitive form
of gas engines in which the charge was not compressed before ignition.
Later, when it was found desirable to compress the gas a certain degree
before exploding it, an incandescent platinum tube in the combustion
chamber, which was kept in a heated condition by a flame burning in it,
exploded the gas. The naked flame was not suitable in this application
because when the slide was opened to provide communication between the
flame and the gas the compressed charge escaped from the cylinder with
enough pressure to blow out the flame at times and thus cause irregular
ignition. When the flame was housed in a platinum tube it was protected
from the direct action of the gas, and as long as the tube was
maintained at the proper point of incandescence regular ignition was
obtained.

