If the coil still refuses to give a spark and all connections are
correct, the coil should be replaced and the defective coil returned to
the manufacturer.

If both magneto and coil give a spark when tested as just described, the
spark-plugs should be investigated. To do this, disconnect the cables
and remove the spark-plugs. Then reconnect the cables to the plugs and
place them so that the frame portions of the plugs are in metallic
connection with the frame of the motor. Then turn over the motor, thus
revolving the magneto armature, and see if a spark is produced at the
spark gaps of the plugs.

The most common defects in spark-plugs are breaking down of the
insulation, fouling due to carbon, or too large or small a spark gap. To
clean the plugs a stiff brush and gasoline should be used. The spark
gap should be about 1/32" and never less than 1/64". Too small a gap may
have been caused by beads of metal forming due to the heat of the spark.
Too long a gap may have been caused by the points burning off.

If the magneto and spark plugs are in good condition and the engine does
not run satisfactorily, the setting should be verified according to
instructions previously given, and, if necessary, readjusted.

[Illustration: Fig. 66.--The Dixie Model 60 for Six-Cylinder Airplane
Engine Ignition.]

Be careful to observe that both the type "VN-1" and type "N-1" coils are
so arranged that the spark occurs on the opening of the contacts of the
timer. As this is just the reverse of the usual operation, it should be
carefully noted when any change in the setting of the timer is made. The
timer on the dual type magneto is adjusted so that the battery spark
occurs about 5Â° later than the magneto spark. This provides an
automatic advance as soon as the switch is thrown to the magneto
position "MAG." This relative timing can be easily adjusted by removing
the interrupter and shifting the cam in the direction desired.


THE DIXIE MAGNETO

[Illustration: Fig. 67.--Installation Dimensions of Dixie Model 60
Magneto.]

