In all machinery in motion the members which are in contact have a
tendency to stick to each other, and the very minute projections which
exist on even the smoothest of surfaces would have a tendency to cling
or adhere to each other if the surfaces were not kept apart by some
elastic and unctuous substance. This will flow or spread out over the
surfaces and smooth out the inequalities existing which tend to produce
heat and retard motion of the pieces relative to each other.

A general impression which obtains is that well machined surfaces are
smooth, but while they are apparently free from roughness, and no
projections are visible to the naked eye, any smooth bearing surface,
even if very carefully ground, will have a rough appearance if examined
with a magnifying glass. An exaggerated condition to illustrate this
point is shown at Fig. 75. The amount of friction will vary in
proportion to the pressure on the surfaces in contact and will augment
as the loads increase; the rougher surfaces will have more friction than
smoother ones and soft bodies will produce more friction than hard
substances.


FRICTION DEFINED

Friction is always present in any mechanism as a resisting force that
tends to retard motion and bring all moving parts to a state of rest.
The absorption of power by friction may be gauged by the amount of heat
which exists at the bearing points. Friction of solids may be divided
into two classes: sliding friction, such as exists between the piston
and cylinder, or the bearings of a gas-engine, and rolling friction,
which is that present when the load is supported by ball or roller
bearings, or that which exists between the tires or the driving wheels
and the road. Engineers endeavor to keep friction losses as low as
possible, and much care is taken in all modern airplane engines to
provide adequate methods of lubrication, or anti-friction bearings at
all points where considerable friction exists.


THEORY OF LUBRICATION

