When a force-feed lubricating system is used, the oil, escaping past the
cheeks of both ends of the crank-pin bearings, is thrown off at a
tangent to the crank-pin circle in all directions, supplying the
cylinders on both sides with an equal quantity of oil, as at Fig. 80, B.


WHY COOLING SYSTEMS ARE NECESSARY

The reader should understand from preceding chapters that the power of
an internal-combustion motor is obtained by the rapid combustion and
consequent expansion of some inflammable gas. The operation in brief is
that when air or any other gas or vapor is heated, it will expand and
that if this gas is confined in a space which will not permit expansion,
pressure will be exerted against all sides of the containing chamber.
The more a gas is heated, the more pressure it will exert upon the walls
of the combustion chamber it confines. Pressure in a gas may be
created by increasing its temperature and inversely heat may be created
by pressure. When a gas is compressed its total volume is reduced and
the temperature is augmented.

[Illustration: Fig. 80.--Why Pressure Feed System is Best for
Eight-Cylinder Vee Airplane Engines.]

The efficiency of any form of heat engine is determined by the power
obtained from a certain fuel consumption. A definite amount of energy
will be liberated in the form of heat when a pound of any fuel is
burned. The efficiency of any heat engine is proportional to the power
developed from a definite quantity of fuel with the least loss of
thermal units. If the greater proportion of the heat units derived by
burning the explosive mixture could be utilized in doing useful work,
the efficiency of the gasoline engine would be greater than that of any
other form of energizing power. There is a great loss of heat from
various causes, among which can be cited the reduction of pressure
through cooling the motor and the loss of heat through the exhaust
valves when the burned gases are expelled from the cylinder.

