[Illustration: Fig. 83.--How Water Cooling System of Thomas Airplane
Engine is Installed in Fuselage.]

The water is drawn from the lower header of the radiator by the pump and
is forced through a manifold to the lower portion of the water jackets
of the cylinder. It becomes heated as it passes around the cylinder
walls and combustion chambers and the hot water passes out of the top of
the water jacket to the upper portion of the radiator. Here it is
divided in thin streams and directed against comparatively cool metal
which abstracts the heat from the water. As it becomes cooler it falls
to the bottom of the radiator because its weight increases as the
temperature becomes lower. By the time it reaches the lower tank of the
radiator it has been cooled sufficiently so that it may be again passed
around the cylinders of the motor. The popular form of circulating pump
is known as the "centrifugal type" because a rotary impeller of
paddle-wheel form throws water which it receives at a central point
toward the outside and thus causes it to maintain a definite rate of
circulation. The pump is always a separate appliance attached to the
engine and driven by positive gearing or direct-shaft connection. The
centrifugal pump is not as positive as the gear form, and some
manufacturers prefer the latter because of the positive pumping
features. They are very simple in form, consisting of a suitable cast
body in which a pair of spur pinions having large teeth are carried. One
of these gears is driven by suitable means, and as it turns the other
member they maintain a flow of water around the pump body. The pump
should always be installed in series with the water pipe which conveys
the cool liquid from the lower compartment of the radiator to the
coolest portion of the water jacket.

[Illustration: Fig. 84.--Finned Tube Radiators at the Side of Hall-Scott
Airplane Power Plant Installed in Standard Fuselage.]


WATER CIRCULATION BY NATURAL SYSTEM

