Considered from a purely theoretical point of view, the individual
cylinder casting has much in its favor. It is advanced that more uniform
cooling is possible than where the cylinders are cast either in pairs or
three or four in one casting. More uniform cooling insures that the
expansion or change of form due to heating will be more equal. This is
an important condition because the cylinder bore must remain true under
all conditions of operation. If the heating effect is not uniform, which
condition is liable to obtain if metal is not evenly distributed, the
cylinder may become distorted by heat and the bore be out of truth. When
separate cylinders are used it is possible to make a uniform water space
and have the cooling liquid evenly distributed around the cylinder. In
multiple cylinder castings this is not always the rule, as in many
instances, especially in four-cylinder block motors where compactness is
the main feature, there is but little space between the cylinders for
the passage of water. Under such circumstances the cooling effect is not
even, and the stresses which obtain because of unequal expansion may
distort the cylinder to some extent. When steel cylinders are made from
forgings, the water jackets are usually of copper or sheet steel
attached to the forging by autogenous welding; in the case of the latter
and, in some cases, the former may be electro-deposited on the
cylinders.


BLOCK CASTINGS

[Illustration: Fig. 86.--Views of Four-Cylinder Duesenberg Airplane
Engine Cylinder Block.]

The advantage of casting the cylinders in blocks is that a motor may be
much shorter than it would be if individual castings were used. It is
admitted that when the cylinders are cast together a more compact,
rigid, and stronger power plant is obtained than when cast separately.
There is a disadvantage, however, in that if one cylinder becomes
damaged it will be necessary to replace the entire unit, which means
scrapping three good cylinders because one of the four has failed. When
the cylinders are cast separately one need only replace the one that has
become damaged. The casting of four cylinders in one unit is made
possible by improved foundry methods, and when proper provision is made
for holding the cores when the metal is poured and the cylinder casts
are good, the construction is one of distinct merit. It is sometimes the
case that the proportion of sound castings is less when cylinders are
cast in block, but if the proper precautions are observed in molding and
the proper mixtures of cast iron used, the ratio of defective castings
is no more than when cylinders are molded individually. As an example of
the courage of engineers in departing from old-established rules, the
cylinder casting shown at Fig. 86 may be considered typical. This is
used on the Duesenberg four-cylinder sixteen-valve 4-3/4" Ã— 7" engine
which has a piston displacement of 496 cu. in. At a speed of 2,000
r.p.m., corresponding to a piston speed of 2,325 ft. per min., the
engine is guaranteed to develop 125 horse-power. The weight of the model
engine without gear reduction is 436 lbs., but a number of refinements
have been made in the design whereby it is expected to get the weight
down to 390 lbs. The four cylinders are cast from semi-steel in a single
block, with integral heads. The cylinder construction is the same as
that which has always been used by Mr. Duesenberg, inlet and exhaust
valves being arranged horizontally opposite each other in the head.
There are large openings in the water jacket at both sides and at the
ends, which are closed by means of aluminum covers, water-tightness
being secured by the use of gaskets. This results in a saving in weight
because the aluminum covers can be made considerably lighter than it
would be possible to cast the jacket walls, and, besides, it permits of
obtaining a more nearly uniform thickness of cylinder wall, as the cores
can be much better supported. The cooling water passes completely around
each cylinder, and there is a very considerable space between the two
central cylinders, this being made necessary in order to get the large
bearing area desirable for the central bearing.

