That advancing the opening of the exhaust valve was of value was
discovered on the early motors and is explained by the necessity of
releasing a large amount of gas, the volume of which has been greatly
raised by the heat of combustion. When the inlet valves were
mechanically operated it was found that allowing them to lag at closing
enabled the inspiration of a greater volume of gas. Disregarding the
inertia or flow of the gases, opening the exhaust at center would enable
one to obtain full value of the expanding gases the entire length of the
piston stroke, and it would not be necessary to keep the valve open
after the top center, as the reverse stroke would produce a suction
effect which might draw some of the inert charge back into the cylinder.
On the other hand, giving full consideration to the inertia of the gas,
opening the valve before center is reached will provide for quick
expulsion of the gases, which have sufficient velocity at the end of the
stroke, so that if the valve is allowed to remain open a little longer,
the amount of lag varying with the opinions of the designer, the
cylinder is cleared in a more thorough manner.


BLOWING BACK

When the factor of retarded opening is considered without reckoning the
inertia of the gases, it would appear that if the valve were allowed to
remain open after center had passed, say, on the closing of the inlet,
the piston, having reversed its motion, would have the effect of
expelling part of the fresh charge through the still open valve as it
passed inward at its compression stroke. This effect is called blowing
back, and is often noted with motors where the valve settings are not
absolutely correct, or where the valve-springs or seats are defective
and prevent proper closing.

This factor is not of as much import as might appear, as on closer
consideration it will be seen that the movement of the piston as the
crank reaches either end of the stroke is less per degree of angular
movement than it is when the angle of the connecting rod is greater.
Then, again, a certain length of time is required for the reversal of
motion of the piston, during which time the crank is in motion but the
piston practically at a standstill. If the valves are allowed to remain
open during this period, the passage of the gas in or out of the
cylinder will be by its own momentum.

