
CLOSING THE INLET VALVE

As in the case with the other points of opening and closing, there is a
wide diversity of practice as relates to closing the inlet valve. Some
of the designers close this exactly at bottom center, but this practice
cannot be commended, as there is a considerable portion of time, at
least ten or fifteen degrees angular motion of the crank, before the
piston will commence to travel to any extent on its compression stroke.
The gases rushing into the cylinder have considerable velocity, and
unless an equilibrium is obtained between the pressure inside and that
of the atmosphere outside, they will continue to rush into the cylinder
even after the piston ceases to exert any suction effect.

For this reason, if the valve is closed exactly on center, a full charge
may not be inspired into the cylinder, though if the time of closing is
delayed, this momentum or inertia of the gas will be enough to insure
that a maximum charge is taken into the cylinder. The writer considers
that nothing will be gained if the valve is allowed to remain open
longer than twenty degrees, and an analysis of practice in this respect
would seem to confirm this opinion. From that point in the crank
movement the piston travel increases and the compressive effect is
appreciable, and it would appear that a considerable proportion of the
charge might be exhausted into the manifold and carburetor if the valve
were allowed to remain open beyond a point corresponding to twenty
degrees angular movement of the crank.


TIME OF IGNITION

In this country engineers unite in providing a variable time of
ignition, though abroad some difference of opinion is noted on this
point. The practice of advancing the time of ignition, when affected
electrically, was severely condemned by early makers, these maintaining
that it was necessary because of insufficient heat and volume of the
spark, and it was thought that advancing ignition was injurious. The
engineers of to-day appreciate the fact that the heat of the electric
spark, especially when from a mechanical generator of electrical energy,
is the only means by which we can obtain practically instantaneous
explosion, as required by the operation of motors at high speeds, and
for the combustion of large volumes of gas.

