One of the important conditions in piston design is the method of
securing the wrist pin which is used to connect the piston to the upper
end of the connecting rod. Various methods have been devised to keep the
pin in place, the most common of these being shown at Fig. 117. The
wrist pin should be retained by some positive means which is not liable
to become loose under the vibratory stresses which obtain at this point.
If the wrist pin was free to move it would work out of the bosses
enough so that the end would bear against the cylinder wall. As it is
usually made of steel, which is a harder material than cast iron used in
cylinder construction, the rubbing action would tend to cut a groove in
the cylinder wall which would make for loss of power because it would
permit escape of gas. The wrist pin member is a simple cylindrical
element that fits the bosses closely, and it may be either hollow or
solid stock. A typical piston and connecting rod assembly which shows a
piston in section also is given at Fig. 118. The piston of the
Sturtevant aÃ«ronautical motor is shown at Fig. 119, the aluminum piston
of the Thomas airplane motor with piston rings in place is shown at Fig.
120. A good view of the wrist pin and connecting rod are also given. The
iron piston of the Gnome "Monosoupape" airplane engine and the
unconventional connecting rod assembly are clearly depicted at Fig 121.

[Illustration: Fig. 120.--Aluminum Piston and Light But Strong Steel
Connecting Rod and Wrist Pin of Thomas Aviation Engine.]

The method of retention shown at A is the simplest and consists of a set
screw having a projecting portion passing into the wrist pin and
holding it in place. The screw is kept from turning or loosening by
means of a check nut. The method outlined at B is similar to that shown
at A, except that the wrist pin is solid and the point of the set screw
engages an annular groove turned in the pin for its reception. A very
positive method is shown at C. Here the retention screws pass into the
wrist pin and are then locked by a piece of steel wire which passes
through suitable holes in the ends. The method outlined at D is
sometimes employed, and it varies from that shown at C only in that the
locking wire, which is made of spring steel, is passed through the heads
of the locking screws. Some designers machine a large groove around the
piston at such a point that when the wrist pin is put in place a large
packing ring may be sprung in the groove and utilized to hold the wrist
pin in place.

