[Illustration: Fig. 128.--Connecting Rod Types Summarized.
A--Single Connecting Rod Made in One Piece, Usually Fitted in Small
Single-Cylinder Engines Having Built-Up Crank-Shafts. B--Marine Type, a
Popular Form on Heavy Engines. C--Conventional Automobile Type, a
Modified Marine Form. D--Type Having Hinged Lower Cap and Split Wrist
Pin Bushing. E--Connecting Rod Having Diagonally Divided Big End.
F--Ball-Bearing Rod. G--Sections Showing Structural Shapes Commonly
Employed in Connecting Rod Construction.]

In a number of instances, instead of plain bushed bearings anti-friction
forms using ball or rollers have been used at the lower end. A
ball-bearing connecting rod is shown at F. The big end may be made in
one piece, because if it is possible to get the ball bearing on the
crank-pins it will be easy to put the connecting rod in place. Ball
bearings are not used very often on connecting rod big ends because of
difficulty of installation, though when applied properly they give
satisfactory service and reduce friction to a minimum. One of the
advantages of the ball bearing is that it requires no adjustment,
whereas the plain bushings depicted in the other connecting rods must be
taken up from time to time to compensate for wear.

This can be done in forms shown at B, C, D, and E by bringing the lower
bearing caps closer to the upper one and scraping out the brasses to fit
the shaft. A number of liners or shims of thin brass or copper stock,
varying from .002 inch to .005 inch, are sometimes interposed between
the halves of the bearings when it is first fitted to the crank-pin. As
the brasses wear the shims may be removed and the portions of the
bearings brought close enough together to take up any lost motion that
may exist, though in some motors no shims are provided and depreciation
can be remedied only by installing new brasses and scraping to fit.

[Illustration: Fig. 129.--Double Connecting Rod Assembly For Use On
Single Crank-Pin of Vee Engine.]

