[Illustration: Fig. 136.--Showing Form of Crank-Shaft for Twin-Cylinder
Opposed Power Plant.]

[Illustration: Fig. 137.--Crank-Shaft of Thomas-Morse Eight-Cylinder Vee
Engine.]

Crank-shaft form will vary with a number of cylinders and it is possible
to use a number of different arrangements of crank-pins and bearings for
the same number of cylinders. The simplest form of crank-shaft is that
used on simple radial cylinder motors as it would consist of but one
crank-pin, two webs, and the crank-shaft. As the number of cylinders
increase in Vee motors as a general rule more crank-pins are used. The
crank-shaft that would be used on a two-cylinder opposed motor is shown
at Fig. 136. This has two throws and the crank-pins are spaced 180
degrees apart. The bearings are exceptionally long. Four-cylinder
crank-shafts may have two, three or five main bearings and three or four
crank-pins. In some forms of two-bearing crank-shafts, such as used when
four-cylinders are cast in a block, or unit casting, two of the pistons
are attached to one common crank-pin, so that in reality the crank-shaft
has but three crank-pins. A typical three bearing, four-cylinder
crank-shaft is shown at Fig. 134, A. The same type can be used for an
eight-cylinder Vee engine, except for the greater length of crank-pins
to permit of side by side rods as shown at Fig. 137. Six cylinder
vertical tandem and twelve-cylinder Vee engine crank-shafts usually have
four or seven main bearings depending upon the disposition of the
crank-pins and arrangement of cylinders. At Fig. 138, A, the bottom
view of a twelve-cylinder engine with bottom half of crank case removed
is given. This illustrates clearly the arrangement of main bearings when
the crank-shaft is supported on four journals. The crank-shaft shown at
Fig. 138, B, is a twelve-cylinder seven-bearing type.

[Illustration: Fig. 138.--Crank-Case and Crank-Shaft Construction for
Twelve-Cylinder Motors. A--Duesenberg. B--Curtiss.]

