[Illustration: Fig. 148.--End Elevation of Hall-Scott A-7 Four-Cylinder
Motor, with Installation Dimensions.]


HALL-SCOTT ENGINE INSTALLATION

[Illustration: Fig. 149.--Plan and Side Elevation of Hall-Scott A-7
Four-Cylinder Airplane Engine, with Installation Dimensions.]

The very thorough manner in which installation diagrams are prepared by
the leading engine makers leaves nothing to the imagination. The
dimensions of the Hall-Scott four-cylinder airplane engine are given
clearly in our inch measurements with the metric equivalents at Figs.
148 and 149, the former showing a vertical elevation while the latter
has a plan view and side elevation. The installation of this engine in
airplanes is clearly shown at Figs. 150 and 151, the former having the
radiator installed at the front of the motor and having all exhaust
pipes joined to one common discharge funnel, which deflects the gas over
the top plane while the latter has the radiator placed vertically above
the motor at the back end and has a direct exhaust gas discharge to the
air.

[Illustration: Fig. 150.

CENSORED]

[Illustration: Fig. 151.

CENSORED]

The dimensions of the six-cylinder Hall-Scott motor which is known as
the type A-5 125 H. P. are given at Fig. 152, which is an end sectional
elevation, and at Fig. 153, which is a plan view. The dimensions are
given both in inch sizes and the metric equivalents. The appearance of
a Hall-Scott six-cylinder engine installed in a fuselage is given at
Fig. 154, while a diagram showing the location of the engine and the
various pipes leading to the auxiliary groups is outlined at Fig. 155.
The following instructions for installing the Hall-Scott power plant
are reproduced from the instruction book issued by the maker.
Operating instructions which are given should enable any good mechanic
to make a proper installation and to keep the engine in good running
condition.

[Illustration: Fig. 152.

CENSORED]


FUEL SYSTEM INSTALLATION

