[Illustration: Fig. 153.--Plan View of Hall-Scott Type A-5 125
Horse-Power Airplane Engine, Showing Installation Dimensions.]

Gasoline giving the best results with this equipment is as follows:
Gravity 58-62 deg. Baume A. Initial boiling point--Richmond method--102Â°
Fahr. Sulphur .014. Calorimetric bomb test 20610 B. T. U. per pound. If
the gasoline tank is placed in the fuselage below the level of the
carburetor, a hand pump must be used to maintain air pressure in gas
tank to force the gasoline to the carburetor. After starting the engine
the small auxiliary air pump upon the engine will maintain sufficient
pressure. A-7a and A-5a engines are furnished with a new type auxiliary
air pump. This should be frequently oiled and care taken so no grit or
sand will enter which might lodge between the valve and its seat, which
would make it fail to operate properly. An air relief valve is furnished
with each engine. It should be screwed into the gas tank and properly
regulated to maintain the pressure required. This is done by screwing
the ratchet on top either up or down. If two tanks are used in a plane
one should be installed in each tank. All air pump lines should be
carefully gone over quite frequently to ascertain if they are tight.
Check valves have to be placed in these lines. In some cases the
gasoline tank is placed above the engine, allowing it to drain by
gravity to the carburetor. When using this system there should be a drop
of not less than two feet from the lowest portion of the gasoline tank
to the upper part of the carburetor float chamber. Even this height
might not be sufficient to maintain the proper volume of gasoline to the
carburetor at high speeds. Air pressure is advised upon all tanks to
insure the proper supply of gasoline. When using gravity feed without
air pressure be sure to vent the tank to allow circulation of air. If
gravity tank is used and the engine runs satisfactorily at low speeds
but cuts out at high speeds the trouble is undoubtedly due to
insufficient height of the tank above the carburetor. The tank should be
raised or air pressure system used.

