If the ignition system and carburetor appear to be in good working
order, and the hand crank shows that there is no compression in one or
more of the cylinders, it means some defect in the valve system. If the
engine is a multiple-cylinder type and one finds poor compression in all
of the cylinders it may be due to the rare defect of improper valve
timing. This may be caused by a gear having altered its position on the
cam-shaft or crank-shaft, because of a sheared key or pin having
permitted the gear to turn about half of a revolution and then having
caught and held the gear in place by a broken or jagged end so that
cam-shaft would turn, but the valves open at the wrong time. If but one
of the cylinders is at fault and the rest appear to have good
compression the trouble may be due to a defective condition either
inside or outside of that cylinder. The external parts may be inspected
easily, so the following should be looked for: a broken valve, a warped
valve-head, broken valve-springs, sticking or bent valve-stems, dirt
under valve-seat, leak at valve-chamber cap or spark-plug gasket.
Defective priming cock, cracked cylinder head (rarely occurs), leak
through cracked spark-plug insulation, valve-plunger stuck in the
guide, lack of clearance between valve-stem end and top of plunger
caused by loose adjusting screw which has worked up and kept the valve
from seating. The faulty compression may be due to defects inside the
motor. The piston-head may be cracked (rarely occurs), piston rings may
be broken, the slots in the piston rings may be in line, the rings may
have lost their elasticity or have become gummed in the grooves of the
piston, or the piston and cylinder walls may be badly scored by a loose
wrist pin or by defective lubrication. If the motor is a type with a
separate head it is possible the gasket or packing between the cylinder
and combustion chamber may leak, either admitting water to the cylinder
or allowing compression to escape.

