Make sure that a spark occurs in each cylinder as follows: If magneto or
magneto and battery with non-vibrating coil is used: Disconnect wire
from spark-plug, hold end about 1/8 inch from cylinder or terminal of
spark-plug. Have motor cranked briskly and see if spark occurs. Examine
adjustment of interrupter points. See that wires are placed correctly
and not short circuited. Take out spark-plug and lay it on the cylinder,
being careful that base of plug only touches the cylinder and that
ignition wire is connected. Have motor cranked briskly and see if spark
occurs. Check timing of magneto and see that all brushes are making
contact.

See if there is gasoline in the carburetor. See that there is gasoline
in the tank. Examine valve at tank. Prime carburetor and see that spray
nozzle passage is clear. Be sure throttle is open. Prime cylinders by
putting about a teaspoonful of gasoline in through pet cock or
spark-plug opening. Adjust carburetor if necessary.


LOCATION OF ENGINE TROUBLES MADE EASY

The following tabulation has been prepared and originated by the writer
to outline in a simple manner the various troubles and derangements that
interfere with efficient internal-combustion engine action. The parts
and their functions are practically the same in all gas or gasoline
engines of the four-cycle type, and the general instructions given apply
just as well to all hydro-carbon engines, even if the parts differ in
form materially. The essential components are clearly indicated in the
many part sectional drawings in this book so they may be easily
recognized. The various defects that may materialize are tabulated in a
manner that makes for ready reference, and the various defective
conditions are found opposite the part affected, and under a heading
that denotes the main trouble to which the others are contributing
causes. The various symptoms denoting the individual troubles outlined
are given to facilitate their recognition in a positive manner.

