
USE AND CARE OF FILES

Mention has been previously made of the importance of providing a
complete set of files and suitable handles. These should be in various
grades or degrees of fineness and three of each kind should be provided.
In the flat and half round files three grades are necessary, one with
coarse teeth for roughing, and others with medium and fine teeth for the
finishing cuts. The round or rat tail file is necessary in filing out
small holes, the half round for finishing the interior of large ones.
Half round files are also well adapted for finishing surfaces of
peculiar contour, such as the inside of bearing boxes, connecting rod
and main bearing caps, etc. Square files are useful in finishing keyways
or cleaning out burred splines, while the triangular section or
three-cornered file is of value in cleaning out burred threads and
sharp corners. Flat files are used on all plane surfaces.

[Illustration: Fig. 165.--Illustrating Use and Care of Files.]

The file brush shown at Fig. 165, A, consists of a large number of wire
bristles attached to a substantial wood back having a handle of
convenient form so that the bristles may be drawn through the
interstices between the teeth of the file to remove dirt and grease. If
the teeth are filled with pieces of soft metal, such as solder or
babbitt, it may be necessary to remove this accumulation with a piece of
sheet metal as indicated at Fig. 165, B. The method of holding a file
for working on plain surfaces when it is fitted with the regular form of
wooden handle is shown at C, while two types of handles enabling the
mechanic to use the flat file on plain surfaces of such size that the
handle type indicated at C, could not be used on account of interfering
with the surface finished are shown at D. The method of using a file
when surfaces are finished by draw filing is shown at E. This differs
from the usual method of filing and is only used when surfaces are to be
polished and very little metal removed.

