As many of the dimensions of the airplane parts, especially of those of
foreign manufacture or such parts as ball and roller bearings, are based
on the metric system, the competent repairman should possess both inch
and metric micrometers in order to avoid continual reference to a table
of metric equivalents. With a metric micrometer there are fifty
graduations on the barrel, these representing .01 of a millimeter, or
approximately .004 inch. One full turn of the barrel means an increase
of half a millimeter, or .50 mm. (fifty one-hundredths). As it takes two
turns to augment the space between the anvil and the stem by increments
of one millimeter, it will be evident that it would not be difficult to
divide the spaces on the metric micrometer thimble in halves by the eye,
and thus the average workman can measure to .0002 inch plus or minus
without difficulty. As set in the illustration, the metric micrometers
show a space of 13.5 mm., or about one millimeter more than half an
inch. The inch micrometer shown is set to five-tenths or five hundred
one-thousandths or one-half inch. A little study of the foregoing matter
will make it easy to understand the action of either the inch or metric
micrometer.

Both of the micrometers shown have a small knurled knob at the end of
the barrel. This controls the ratchet stop, which is a device that
permits a ratchet to slip by a pawl when more than a certain amount of
pressure is applied, thereby preventing the measuring spindle from
turning further and perhaps springing the instrument. A simple rule that
can be easily memorized for reading the inch micrometer is to multiply
the number of vertical divisions on the sleeve by 25 and add to that the
number of divisions on the bevel of the thimble reading from the zero to
the line which coincides with the horizontal line on the sleeve. For
example: if there are ten divisions visible on the sleeve, multiply this
number by 25, then add the number of divisions shown on the bevel of the
thimble, which is 10. The micrometer is therefore opened 10 Ã— 25 equals
250 plus 10 equals 260 thousandths.

