
USE OF CARBON SCRAPERS

It is not unusual for one to hear an aviator complain that the engine he
operates is not as responsive as it was when new after he has run it but
relatively few hours. There does not seem to be anything actually wrong
with the engine, yet it does not respond readily to the throttle and is
apt to overheat. While these symptoms denote a rundown condition of the
mechanism, the trouble is often due to nothing more serious than
accumulations of carbon. The remedy is the removal of this matter out of
place. The surest way of cleaning the inside of the motor thoroughly is
to remove the cylinders, if these members are cast integrally with the
head or of removing the head member if that is a separate casting, to
expose all parts.

In certain forms of cylinders, especially those of the L form, it is
possible to introduce simple scrapers down through the valve chamber cap
holes and through the spark-plug hole if this component is placed in the
cylinder in some position that communicates directly to the interior of
the cylinder or to the piston top. No claim can be made for originality
or novelty of this process as is has been used for many years on large
stationary engines. The first step is to dismantle the inlet and exhaust
piping and remove the valve caps and valves, although if the deposit is
not extremely hard or present in large quantities one can often
manipulate the scrapers in the valve cap openings without removing
either the piping or the valves. Commencing with the first cylinder, the
crank-shaft is turned till the piston is at the top of its stroke, then
the scraper may be inserted, and the operation of removing the carbon
started by drawing the tool toward the opening. As this is similar to a
small hoe, the cutting edge will loosen some of the carbon and will draw
it toward the opening. A swab is made of a piece of cloth or waste
fastened at the end of a wire and well soaked in kerosene to clean out
the cylinder.

