As the sizes of valve heads and stems vary considerably a "Universal"
valve head truing tool must have some simple means of centering the
valve stem in order to insure concentric machining of the valve head. A
valve head truer which employs an ingenious method of guiding the valve
stem is shown at Fig. 183, E. The device consists of a body portion, B,
provided with an external thread at the top on which the cutter head, A,
is screwed. A number of steel balls, C, are carried in the grooves which
may be altered in size by the adjustment nut, F, which screws in the
bottom of the body portion, B. As the nut F is screwed in against the
spacer member E, the V-grooves are reduced in size and the steel balls,
C, are pressed out in contact with the valve stem. As the circle or
annulus is filled with balls in both upper and lower portions the stem
may be readily turned because it is virtually supported by ball bearing
guides. When a larger valve stem is to be supported, the adjusting nut
F, is screwed out which increases the size of the grooves and permits
the balls, C, to spread out and allow the larger stem to be inserted.


VALVE GRINDING PROCESSES

Mention has been previously made of the importance of truing both valve
head and seat before attempt is made to refit the parts by grinding.
After smoothing the valve seat the next step is to find some way of
turning the valve. Valve heads are usually provided with a screw-driver
slot passing through the boss at the top of the valve or with two
drilled holes to take a forked grinding tool. A combination grinding
tool has been devised which may be used when either the two drilled
holes or the slotted head form of valve is to be rotated. This consists
of a special form of screw driver having an enlarged boss just above the
blade, this boss serving to support a U-shape piece which can be
securely held in operative position by the clamp screw or which can be
turned out of the way if the screw driver blade is to be used.

