[Illustration: Fig. 199.--Sectional View Showing Construction of Canton
and Unn√© Water-Cooled Radial Cylinder Engine.]

Cylinders of this engine are of nickel steel machined all over and carry
water-jackets of spun copper which are attached to the cylinders by
brazing. The water jackets are corrugated to permit the cylinder to
expand freely. The ignition is similar to that of the fixed crank
rotating cylinder engine. An ordinary magneto of the two spark type
driven at 1-3/4 times crank-shaft speed is sufficient to ignite the
seven-cylinder form, while in the nine-cylinder engines the ignition
magneto is of the "shield" type giving four sparks per revolution. The
magneto is driven at 1-1/9 times crank-shaft speed. Nickel steel valves
are used and are carried in castings or cages which screw into bosses in
the cylinder head. Each valve is cam operated through a tappet, push rod
and rocker arm, seven cams being used on a seven-cylinder engine and
nine cams on the nine-cylinder. One cam serves to open both valves as in
its rotation it lifts the tappets in succession and so operates the
exhaust and inlet valves respectively. This method of operation involves
the same period of intake and exhaust. In normal engine practice the
inlet valve opens 12 degrees late and closes 20 degrees late. The
exhaust opens 45 degrees early and closes 6 degrees late. This means
about 188 degrees in the case of inlet valve and 231 degrees crank-shaft
travel for exhaust valves. In the Salmson engine, the exhaust closes and
the inlet opens at the outer dead center and the exhaust opens and the
inlet closes at about the inner dead center. This engine is also made in
a fourteen-cylinder 200 B. H. P. design which is composed of two groups
of seven-cylinders, and it has been made in an eighteen-cylinder design
of 600 horse-power. The nine-cylinder 130 horse-power has a cylinder
bore of 4.73 inches and a stroke of 5.52 inches. Its normal speed of
rotation is 1250 R. P. M. Owing to the radial arrangement of the
cylinders, the weight is but 4-1/4 pounds per B. H. P.

