[Illustration: Fig. 230.--The Simplex Model A Hispano-Suiza Aviation
Engine, a Very Successful Form.]

Oiling is by a positive pressure system. The oil is taken through a
filter and steel tubes cast in the case to main bearings, through
crank-shaft to crank-pins. The fourth main bearing is also provided with
an oil lead from the system and through tubes running up the end of each
cylinder block, oil is provided for the cam-shafts, cams and bearings.
The surplus oil escapes through the end of the cam-shaft where the
driving gears are mounted, and with the oil that has gathered in the top
casing, descends through the drive shaft and gears to the sump.

Ignition is by two eight-cylinder magnetos firing two spark-plugs per
cylinder. The magnetos are driven from each of the two vertical shafts
by small bevel pinions meshing in bevel gears. The carburetor is mounted
between the two cylinder blocks and feeds the two blocks through
aluminum manifolds which are partly water-jacketed. The engine can be
equipped with a geared hand crank-starting device.


STURTEVANT MODEL 5A 140 HORSE-POWER ENGINE

These motors are of the eight-cylinder "V" type, four-stroke cycle,
water-cooled, having a bore of 4 inches and a stroke of 5-1/2 inches,
equivalent to 102 mm. Ã— 140 mm. The normal operating speed of the
crank-shaft is 2,000 R. P. M. The propeller shaft is driven through
reducing gears which can be furnished in different gear ratios. The
standard ratio is 5:3, allowing a propeller speed of 1,200 R. P. M.

The construction of the motor is such as to permit of the application of
a direct drive. The change from the direct drive to gear drive, or vice
versa, can be accomplished in approximately one hour.

The cylinders are cast in pairs from an aluminum alloy and are provided
with steel sleeves, carefully fitted into each cylinder. A perfect
contact is secured between cylinder and sleeve; at the same time a
sleeve can be replaced without injury to the cylinder proper. No
difficulties due to expansion occur on account of the rapid transmission
of heat and the fact that the sleeve is always at higher temperature
than the cylinder. A moulded copper asbestos gasket is placed between
the cylinder and the head, permitting the cooling water to circulate
freely and at the same time insuring a tight joint. The cylinder heads
are cast in pairs from an aluminum alloy and contain ample water
passages for circulation of cooling water over the entire head. Trouble
due to hot valves is thereby eliminated, a most important consideration
in the operation of an aeroplane motor. The water jacket of the head
corresponds to the water jacket of the cylinders and large openings in
both allow the unobstructed circulation of the cooling water. The
cylinder heads and cylinders are both held to the base by six long
bolts. The valves are located in the cylinder heads and are mechanically
operated. The valves and valve springs are especially accessible and of
such size as to permit high volumetric efficiency. The valves are
constructed of hardened tungsten steel, the heads and stems being made
from one piece. The valve rocker arms located on the top of the cylinder
are provided with adjusting screws. A check nut enables the adjusting
screw to be securely locked in position, once the correct clearance has
been determined. The rocker arm bearings are adequately lubricated by a
compression grease cup. Cam-rollers are interposed between the cams and
the push rods in order to reduce the side thrust on the push rods.

