[Illustration: Fig. 232.--Top and Bottom Views of the Curtiss OXX-5 100
Horse-Power Aviation Engine.]

The Curtiss Aeroplane Company announces that it has recently built, and
is offering, a twelve-cylinder 5" Ã— 7" motor, which was designed for
aeronautical uses primarily. This engine is rated at 250 horse-power,
but it is claimed to develop 300 at 1,400 R. P. M. Weights--Motor, 1,125
pounds; radiator, 120 pounds; cooling water, 100 pounds; propeller, 95
pounds.

Gasoline Consumption per Horse-power Hour, 6/10 pounds.

Oil Consumption per Hour at Maximum Speed--2 pints.

Installation Dimensions--Overall length, 84-5/8 inches; overall width,
34-1/8 inches; overall depth, 40 inches; width at bed, 30-1/2 inches;
height from bed, 21-1/8 inches; depth from bed, 18-1/2 inches.


THOMAS-MORSE MODEL 88 ENGINE

The Thomas-Morse Aircraft Corporation of Ithaca, N. Y., has produced a
new engine, Model 88, bearing a close resemblance to the earlier model.
The main features of that model have been retained; in fact, many parts
are interchangeable in the two engines. Supported by the great
development in the wide use of aluminum, the Thomas engineers have
adopted this material for cylinder construction, which adoption forms
the main departure from previous accepted design.

The marked tendency to-day toward a higher speed of rotation has been
conclusively justified, in the opinion of the Thomas engineers, by the
continued reliable performance of engines with crank-shafts operating at
speeds near 2,000 revolutions per minute, driving the propeller through
suitable gearing at the most efficient speed. High speed demands that
the closest attention be paid to the design of reciprocating and
rotating parts and their adjacent units. Steel of the highest
obtainable tensile strength must be used for connecting rods and piston
pins, that they may be light and yet retain a sufficient factor of
safety. Piston design is likewise subjected to the same strict scrutiny.
At the present day, aluminum alloy pistons operate so satisfactorily
that they may be said to have come to stay.

