[Illustration: Fig. 234.--Side View of Thomas-Morse High Speed 150
Horse-Power Aviation Motor with Geared Down Propeller Drive.]


SIXTEEN-VALVE DUESENBERG ENGINE

[Illustration: Fig. 235.--The Reduction Gear-Case of Thomas-Morse 150
Horse-Power Aviation Motor, Showing Ball Bearing and Propeller Drive
Shaft Gear.]

This engine is a four-cylinder, 4-3/4" Ã— 7", 125 horse-power at 2,100 R.
P. M. of the crank-shaft and 1,210 R. P. M. of the propeller. Motors are
sold on above rating; actual power tests prove this motor capable of
developing 140 horse-power at 2,100 R. P. M. of the motor. The exact
weight with magneto, carburetor, gear reduction and propeller hub, as
illustrated, 509 pounds; without gear reduction, 436 pounds. This motor
has been produced as a power plant weighing 3.5 pounds per horse-power,
yet nothing has been sacrificed in rigidity and strength. At its normal
speed it develops 1 horse-power for every 3.5 cubic inches piston
displacement. Cylinders are semi-steel, with aluminum plates enclosing
water jackets. Pistons specially ribbed and made of Magnalite aluminum
compound. Piston rings are special Duesenberg design, being three-piece
rings. Valves are tungsten steel, 1-15/16" inlets and 2" exhausts, two
of each to each cylinder. Arranged horizontally in the head, allowing
very thorough water-jacketing. Inlet valves in cages. Exhaust valves,
seating directly in the cylinder head, are removable through the inlet
valve holes. Valve stems lubricated by splash in the valve action
covers. Valve rocker arms forged with cap screw and nut at upper end to
adjust clearance. Entirely enclosed by aluminum housing, as is entire
valve mechanism. Connecting rods are tubular, chrome nickel steel, light
and strong. Crank-shaft is one-piece forging, hollow bored, 2-1/2-inch
diameter at main bearings. Connecting rod bearings, 2-1/4-inch diameter,
3 inches long. Front main bearing, 3-1/2 inches long; intermediate main
bearing, 3-1/2 inches long; rear main bearing, 4 inches long. Crank-case
of aluminum, barrel type, oil pan on bottom removable. Hand hole plates
on both sides. Strongly webbed.

