
WISCONSIN AVIATION ENGINES

[Illustration: Fig. 238.--Dimensioned End Elevation of Wisconsin Six
Motor.]

The new six-cylinder Wisconsin aviation engines, one of which is shown
at Fig. 237, are of the vertical type, with cylinders in pairs and
valves in the head. Dimensioned drawings of the six-cylinder vertical
type are given at Figs. 238 and 239. The cylinders are made of aluminum
alloy castings, are bored and machined and then fitted with hardened
steel sleeves about 1/16 inch in thickness. After these sleeves have
been shrunk into the cylinders, they are finished by grinding in place.
Gray iron valve seats are cast into the cylinders. The valve seats and
cylinders, as well as the valve ports, are entirely surrounded by water
jackets. The valves set in the heads at an angle of 25Â° from the
vertical, are made of tungsten steel and are provided with double
springs, the outer or main spring and the inner or auxiliary spring,
which is used as a precautionary measure to prevent a valve falling into
the cylinder in remote case of a main spring breaking. The cam-shaft is
made of one solid forging, case-hardened. It is carried in an aluminum
housing bolted to the top of the cylinders. This housing is split
horizontally, the upper half carrying the chrome vanadium steel rocker
levers. The lower half has an oil return trough cast integral, into
which the excess oil overflows and then drains back to the crank-case.
Small inspection plates are fitted over the cams and inner ends of the
cam rocker levers. The cam-shaft runs in bronze bearings and the drive
is through vertical shaft and bevel gears.

[Illustration: Fig. 239.--Dimensioned Side Elevation of Wisconsin Six
Motor.]

The crank-case is made of aluminum, the upper half carrying the
bearings for the crank-shaft. The lower half carries the oil sump in
which all of the oil except that circulating through the system at the
time is carried. The crank-shaft is made of chrome vanadium steel of an
elastic limit of 115,000 pounds. The crank-pins and ends of the shaft
are drilled for lightness and the cheeks are also drilled for oil
circulation. The crank-shaft runs in bronze-backed, Fahrig metal-lined
bearings, four in number. A double thrust bearing is also provided, so
that the motor may be used either in a tractor or pusher type of
machine. Outside of the thrust bearing an annular ball bearing is used
to take the radial load of the propeller. The propeller is mounted on a
taper. At the opposite end of the shaft a bevel gear is fitted which
drives the cam-shaft, through a vertical shaft, and also drives the
water and oil pumps and magnetos. All gears are made of chrome vanadium
steel, heat-treated.

