[Illustration: Fig. 241.--Timing Diagram, Wisconsin Aviation Engine.]

Ignition is by two Bosch magnetos, each on a separate set of plugs fired
simultaneously on opposite sides of the cylinders. Should one magneto
fail, the other would still run the engine at only a slight loss in
power. The Zenith double carburetor is used, three cylinders being
supplied by each carburetor. This insures a higher volumetric
efficiency, which means more power, as there is no overlapping of inlet
valves whatever by this arrangement. All parts of these motors are very
accessible. The water and oil pumps, carburetors, magnetos, oil strainer
or other parts can be removed without disturbing other parts. The lower
crank-case can be removed for inspection or adjustment of bearings, as
the crank-shaft and bearing caps are carried by the upper half. The
motor supporting lugs are also part of the upper crank-case.

The six-cylinder motor, without carburetors or magnetos, weighs 547
pounds. With carburetor and magnetos, the weight is 600 pounds. The
weight of cooling water in the motor is 38 pounds. The sump will carry 4
gallons of oil, or about 28 pounds. A radiator can be furnished suitable
for the motor, weighing 50 pounds. This radiator will hold 3 gallons of
water or about 25 pounds. The motor will drive a two-blade, 8 feet
diameter by 6.25 feet pitch Paragon propeller 1400 revolutions per
minute, developing 148 horse-power. The weight of this propeller is 42
pounds. This makes a total weight of motor, complete with propeller,
radiator filled with water, but without lubricating oil, 755 pounds, or
about 5.1 pounds per horse-power for complete power plant. The fuel
consumption is .5 pound per horse-power per hour. The lubricating oil
consumption is .0175 pound per horse-power per hour, or a total of 2.6
pounds per hour at 1400 revolutions per minute. This would make the
weight of fuel and oil, per hour's run at full power at 1400 revolutions
per minute, 76.6 pounds.

