
=How to Run an Automobile.= By VICTOR W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

This treatise gives concise instructions for starting and
running all makes of gasoline automobiles, how to care for them,
and gives distinctive features of control. Describes every step
for shifting gears, controlling engines, etc. Among the chapters
contained are: I.--Automobile Parts and Their Functions.
II.--General Starting and Driving Instructions. III.--Typical
1917 Control Systems. IV.--Care of Automobiles. 178 pages. 72
specially made illustrations. Price =$1.00=


=Automobile Repairing Made Easy.= By VICTOR W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

A comprehensive, practical exposition of every phase of modern
automobile repairing practice. Outlines every process incidental
to motor car restoration. Gives plans for workshop construction,
suggestions for equipment, power needed, machinery and tools
necessary to carry on business successfully. Tells how to
overhaul and repair all parts of all automobiles. Everything is
explained so simply that motorists and students can acquire a
full working knowledge of automobile repairing. This work starts
with the engine, then considers carburetion, ignition, cooling
and lubrication systems. The clutch, change speed gearing and
transmission system are considered in detail. Contains
instructions for repairing all types of axles, steering gears
and other chassis parts. Many tables, short cuts in figuring and
rules of practice are given for the mechanic. Explains fully
valve and magneto timing, "tuning" engines, systematic location
of trouble, repair of ball and roller bearings, shop kinks,
first aid to injured and a multitude of subjects of interest to
all in the garage and repair business. _This book contains
special instructions on electric starting_, _lighting and
ignition systems_, tire _repairing and rebuilding_, _autogenous
welding_, _brazing and soldering_, _heat treatment of steel_,
_latest timing practice_, _eight and twelve-cylinder motors_,
_etc._ 5-3/4x8. Cloth. 1,056 pages, 1,000 illustrations, 11
folding plates. Price =$3.00=

