WHAT IS SAID OF THIS BOOK:

"'Automobile Repairing Made Easy' is the best book on the
subject I have ever seen and the only book I ever saw that is of
any value in a garage."--Fred Jeffrey, Martinsburg, Neb. "I wish
to thank you for sending me a copy of 'Automobile Repairing Made
Easy.' I do not think it could be excelled."--S. W. Gisriel,
Director of Instruction, Y. M. C. A., Philadelphia, Pa.


=Questions and Answers Relating to Modern Automobile Construction,
Driving and Repair.= By VICTOR W. PAGÃ‰, M.S.A.E.

A practical self-instructor for students, mechanics and
motorists, consisting of thirty-seven lessons in the form of
questions and answers, written with special reference to the
requirements of the non-technical reader desiring easily
understood, explanatory matter relating to all branches of
automobiling. The subject-matter is absolutely correct and
explained in simple language. If you can't answer all of the
following questions, you need this work. The answers to these
and over 2,000 more are to be found in its pages. Give the name
of all important parts of an automobile and describe their
functions. Describe action of latest types of kerosene
carburetors. What is the difference between a "double" ignition
system and a "dual" ignition system? Name parts of an induction
coil. How are valves timed? What is an electric motor starter
and how does it work? What are advantages of worm drive gearing?
Name all important types of ball and roller bearings. What is a
"three-quarter" floating axle? What is a two-speed axle? What is
the Vulcan electric gear shift? Name the causes of lost power in
automobiles. Describe all noises due to deranged mechanism and
give causes? How can you adjust a carburetor by the color of the
exhaust gases? What causes "popping" in the carburetor? What
tools and supplies are needed to equip a car? How do you drive
various makes of cars? What is a differential lock and where is
it used? Name different systems of wire wheel construction,
etc., etc. A popular work at a popular price. 5-1/4x7-1/2.
Cloth. 650 pages, 350 illustrations, 3 folding plates. Price
=$1.50=

