
=Motorcycles, Side Cars and Cyclecars; their Construction, Management
and Repair.= By VICTOR W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

The only complete work published for the motorcyclist and
cyclecarist. Describes fully all leading types of machines,
their design, construction, maintenance, operation and repair.
This treatise outlines fully the operation of two- and
four-cycle power plants and all ignition, carburetion and
lubrication systems in detail. Describes all representative
types of free engine clutches, variable speed gears and power
transmission systems. Gives complete instructions for operating
and repairing all types. Considers fully electric self-starting
and lighting systems, all types of spring frames and spring
forks and shows leading control methods. For those desiring
technical information a complete series of tables and many
formulæ to assist in designing are included. The work tells how
to figure power needed to climb grades, overcome air resistance
and attain high speeds. It shows how to select gear ratios for
various weights and powers, how to figure braking efficiency
required, gives sizes of belts and chains to transmit power
safely, and shows how to design sprockets, belt pulleys, etc.
This work also includes complete formulæ for figuring
horse-power, shows how dynamometer tests are made, defines
relative efficiency of air and water-cooled engines, plain and
anti-friction bearings and many other data of a practical,
helpful, engineering nature. Remember that you get this
information in addition to the practical description and
instructions which alone are worth several times the price of
the book. 550 pages. 350 specially made illustrations, 5 folding
plates. Cloth. Price =$1.50=

WHAT IS SAID OF THIS BOOK:

"Here is a book that should be in the cycle repairer's
kit."--_American Blacksmith._

"The best way for any rider to thoroughly understand his
machine, is to get a copy of this book; it is worth many times
its price."--_Pacific Motorcyclist._

