
=Box Car Chart.=

A chart showing the anatomy of a box car, having every part of
the car numbered and its proper name given in a reference list.
Price =25 Cents=


=Gondola Car Chart.=

A chart showing the anatomy of a gondola car, having every part
of the car numbered and its proper reference name given in a
reference list. Price =25 Cents=


=Passenger-Car Chart.=

A chart showing the anatomy of a passenger-car, having every
part of the car numbered and its proper name given in a
reference list =25 Cents=


=Steel Hopper Bottom Coal Car.=

A chart showing the anatomy of a steel Hopper Bottom Coal Car,
having every part of the car numbered and its proper name given
in a reference list. Price =25 Cents=


=Tractive Power Chart.=

A chart whereby you can find the tractive power or drawbar pull
of any locomotive without making a figure. Shows what cylinders
are equal, how driving wheels and steam pressure affect the
power. What sized engine you need to exert a given drawbar pull
or anything you desire in this line. Price =50 Cents=


=Horse-Power Chart.=

Shows the horse-power of any stationary engine without
calculation. No matter what the cylinder diameter of stroke, the
steam pressure of cut-off, the revolutions, or whether
condensing or non-condensing, it's all there. Easy to use,
accurate, and saves time and calculations. Especially useful to
engineers and designers. Price =50 Cents=


=Boiler Room Chart.= By GEO. L. FOWLER.

A chart--size 14x28 inches--showing in isometric perspective the
mechanisms belonging in a modern boiler room. The various parts
are shown broken or removed, so that the internal construction
is fully illustrated. Each part is given a reference number, and
these, with the corresponding name, are given in a glossary
printed at the sides. This chart is really a dictionary of the
boiler room--the names of more than 200 parts being given. Price
=25 Cents=


~COKE~


=Modern Coking Practice, Including Analysis of Materials and Products.=

