Cloth bound. Price =$5.00=

Half Morocco. Price =$6.50=


~CONCRETE~


=Concrete Workers' Reference Books. A Series of Popular Handbooks for
Concrete Users.= Prepared by A. A. HOUGHTON =50 cents=

_The author, in preparing this Series, has not only treated on
the usual types of construction, but explains and illustrates
molds and systems that are not patented, but which are equal in
value and often superior to those restricted by patents. These
molds are very easily and cheaply constructed and embody
simplicity, rapidity of operation, and the most successful
results in the molded concrete. Each of these books is fully
illustrated, and the subjects are exhaustively treated in plain
English._


=Concrete Wall Forms.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

A new automatic wall clamp is illustrated with working drawings.
Other types of wall forms, clamps, separators, etc., are also
illustrated and explained. (No. 1 of Series) Price =50 cents=


=Concrete Floors and Sidewalks.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

The molds for molding squares, hexagonal and many other styles
of mosaic floor and sidewalk blocks are fully illustrated and
explained. (No. 2 of Series) Price =50 cents=


=Practical Concrete Silo Construction.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

Complete working drawings and specifications are given for
several styles of concrete silos, with illustrations of molds
for monolithic and block silos. The tables, data, and
information presented in this book are of the utmost value in
planning and constructing all forms of concrete silos. (No. 3 of
Series) Price =50 cents=


=Molding Concrete Chimneys, Slate and Hoof Tiles.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

The manufacture of all types of concrete slate and roof tile is
fully treated. Valuable data on all forms of reinforced concrete
roofs are contained within its pages. The construction of
concrete chimneys by block and monolithic systems is fully
illustrated and described. A number of ornamental designs of
chimney construction with molds are shown in this valuable
treatise. (No. 4 of Series.) Price =50 cents=

