
=Molding and Curing Ornamental Concrete.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

The proper proportions of cement and aggregates for various
finishes, also the method of thoroughly mixing and placing in
the molds, are fully treated. An exhaustive treatise on this
subject that every concrete worker will find of daily use and
value. (No. 5 of Series.) Price =50 cents=


=Concrete Monuments, Mausoleums and Burial Vaults.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

The molding of concrete monuments to imitate the most expensive
cut stone is explained in this treatise with working drawings of
easily built molds. Cutting inscriptions and designs are also
fully treated. (No. 6 of Series.) Price =50 cents=


=Molding Concrete Bathtubs, Aquariums and Natatoriums.= By A. A.
HOUGHTON.

Simple molds and instruction are given for molding many styles
of concrete bathtubs, swimming-pools, etc. These molds are
easily built and permit rapid and successful work. (No. 7 of
Series.) Price =50 cents=


=Concrete Bridges, Culverts and Sewers.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

A number of ornamental concrete bridges with illustrations of
molds are given. A collapsible center or core for bridges,
culverts and sewers is fully illustrated with detailed
instructions for building. (No. 8 of Series.) Price =50 cents=


=Constructing Concrete Porches.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

A number of designs with working drawings of molds are fully
explained so any one can easily construct different styles of
ornamental concrete porches without the purchase of expensive
molds. (No. 9 of Series.) Price =50 cents=


=Molding Concrete Flower-Pots, Boxes, Jardinieres, Etc.= By A. A.
HOUGHTON.

The molds for producing many original designs of flower-pots,
urns, flower-boxes, jardinieres, etc., are fully illustrated and
explained, so the worker can easily construct and operate same.
(No. 10 of Series.) Price =50 cents=


=Molding Concrete Fountains and Lawn Ornaments.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

The molding of a number of designs of lawn seats, curbing,
hitching posts, pergolas, sun dials and other forms of
ornamental concrete for the ornamentation of lawns and gardens,
is fully illustrated and described. (No. 11 of Series.) Price
=50 cents=

