
=Electricity Simplified.= By Prof. T. O'CONOR SLOANE.

The object of "Electricity Simplified" is to make the subject as
plain as possible and to show what the modern conception of
electricity is; to show how two plates of different metal,
immersed in acid, can send a message around the globe; to
explain how a bundle of copper wire rotated by a steam engine
can be the agent in lighting our streets; to tell what the volt,
ohm and ampere are, and what high and low tension mean; and to
answer the questions that perpetually arise in the mind in this
age of electricity. 13th Edition. 172 pages. Illustrated. Price
=$1.00=


=House Wiring.= By THOMAS W. POPPE.

This work describes and illustrates the actual installation of
Electric Light Wiring, the manner in which the work should be
done, and the method of doing it. The book can be conveniently
carried in the pocket. It is intended for the Electrician,
Helper and Apprentice. It solves all Wiring Problems and
contains nothing that conflicts with the rulings of the National
Board of Fire Underwriters. It gives just the information
essential to the Successful Wiring of a Building. Among the
subjects treated are: Locating the Meter. Panel-Boards.
Switches. Plug Receptacles. Brackets. Ceiling Fixtures. The
Meter Connections. The Feed Wires. The Steel Armored Cable
System. The Flexible Steel Conduit System. The Ridig Conduit
System. A digest of the National Board of Fire Underwriters'
rules relating to metallic wiring systems. Various switching
arrangements explained and diagrammed. The easiest method of
testing the Three- and Four-way circuits explained. The
grounding of all metallic wiring systems and the reason for
doing so shown and explained. The insulation of the metal parts
of lamp fixtures and the reason for the same described and
illustrated. 125 pages. 2nd Edition, revised and enlarged. Fully
illustrated. Flexible cloth. Price =50 cents=


=How to Become a Successful Electrician.= By Prof. T. O'CONOR SLOANE.

