
=Storage Batteries Simplified.= By VICTOR W. PAGÃ‰, M.E.

A complete treatise on storage battery operating principles,
repairs and applications. The greatly increasing application of
storage batteries in modern engineering and mechanical work has
created a demand for a book that will consider this subject
completely and exclusively. This is the most thorough and
authoritative treatise ever published on this subject. It is
written in easily understandable, non-technical language so that
any one may grasp the basic principles of storage battery action
as well as their practical industrial applications. All electric
and gasoline automobiles use storage batteries. Every automobile
repairman, dealer or salesman should have a good knowledge of
maintenance and repair of these important elements of the motor
car mechanism. This book not only tells how to charge, care for
and rebuild storage batteries but also outlines all the
industrial uses. Learn how they run street cars, locomotives and
factory trucks. Get an understanding of the important functions
they perform in submarine boats, isolated lighting plants,
railway switch and signal systems, marine applications, etc.
This book tells how they are used in central station standby
service, for starting automobile motors and in ignition systems.
Every practical use of the modern storage battery is outlined in
this treatise. 320 pages, fully illustrated. Price =$1.50=


=Switchboards.= By WILLIAM BAXTER, JR.

This book appeals to every engineer and electrician who wants to
know the practical side of things. It takes up all sorts and
conditions of dynamos, connections and circuits, and shows by
diagram and illustration just how the switchboard should be
connected. Includes direct and alternating current boards, also
those for arc lighting, incandescent and power circuits. Special
treatment on high voltage boards for power transmission. 2nd
Edition. 190 pages, Illustrated. Price =$1.50=


=Telephone Construction, Installation, Wiring, Operation and
Maintenance.= By W. H. RADCLIFFE and H. C. CUSHING.

