
=Smoke Prevention and Fuel Economy.= By BOOTH and KERSHAW.

A complete treatise for all interested in smoke prevention and
combustion, being based on the German work of Ernst Schmatolla,
but it is more than a mere translation of the German treatise,
much being added. The authors show as briefly as possible the
principles of fuel combustion, the methods which have been and
are at present in use, as well as the proper scientific methods
for obtaining all the energy in the coal and burning it without
smoke. Considerable space is also given to the examination of
the waste gases, and several of the representative English and
American mechanical stoker and similar appliances are described.
The losses carried away in the waste gases are thoroughly
analyzed and discussed in the Appendix, and abstracts are also
here given of various patents on combustion apparatus. The book
is complete and contains much of value to all who have charge of
large plants. 194 pages. Illustrated. Price =$2.50=


~GAS ENGINES AND GAS~


=Gas, Gasoline and Oil Engines.= By GARDNER D. HISCOX. Revised by VICTOR
W. PAGÃ‰, M.E.

Just issued New 1918 Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Every user
of a gas engine needs this book. Simple, instructive and right
up-to-date. The only complete work on the subject. Tells all
about internal combustion engineering, treating exhaustively on
the design, construction and practical application of all forms
of gas, gasoline, kerosene and crude petroleum-oil engines.
Describes minutely all auxiliary systems, such as lubrication,
carburetion and ignition. Considers the theory and management of
all forms of explosive motors for stationary and marine work,
automobiles, aeroplanes and motor-cycles. Includes also Producer
Gas and Its Production. Invaluable instructions for all
students, gas-engine owners, gas-engineers, patent experts,
designers, mechanics, draftsmen and all having to do with the
modern power. Illustrated by over 400 engravings, many specially
made from engineering drawings, all in correct proportion. 650
pages, 435 engravings. Price =$2.50 net=

