
=The Gasoline Engine on the Farm: Its Operation, Repair and Uses.= By
XENO W. PUTNAM.

This is a practical treatise on the Gasoline and Kerosene Engine
intended for the man who wants to know just how to manage his
engine and how to apply it to all kinds of farm work to the best
advantage.

This book abounds with hints and helps for the farm and
suggestions for the home and house-wife. There is so much of
value in this book that it is impossible to adequately describe
it in such small space. Suffice to say that it is the kind of a
book every farmer will appreciate and every farm home ought to
have. Includes selecting the most suitable engine for farm work,
its most convenient and efficient installation, with chapters on
troubles, their remedies, and how to avoid them. The care and
management of the farm tractor in plowing, harrowing, harvesting
and road grading are fully covered; also plain directions are
given for handling the tractor on the road. Special attention is
given to relieving farm life of its drudgery by applying power
to the disagreeable small tasks which must otherwise be done by
hand. Many home made contrivances for cutting wood, supplying
kitchen, garden, and barn with water, loading, hauling and
unloading hay, delivering grain to the bins or the feed trough
are included; also full directions for making the engine milk
the cows, churn, wash, sweep the house and clean the windows,
etc. Very fully illustrated with drawings of working parts and
cuts showing Stationary, Portable and Tractor Engines doing all
kinds of farm work. All money-making farms utilize power. Learn
how to utilize power by reading the pages of this book. It is an
aid to the result getter, invaluable to the up-to-date farmer,
student, blacksmith, implement dealer and, in fact, all who can
apply practical knowledge of stationary gasoline engines or gas
tractors to advantage. 530 pages. Nearly 180 engravings. Price
=$2.00=

WHAT IS SAID OF THIS BOOK:

