
=How to Run and Install Two- and Four-Cycle Marine Gasoline Engines.= By
C. VON CULIN.

Revised and enlarged edition just issued. The object of this
little book is to furnish a pocket instructor for the beginner,
the busy man who uses an engine for pleasure or profit, but who
does not have the time or inclination for a technical book, but
simply to thoroughly understand how to properly operate, install
and care for his own engine. The index refers to each trouble,
remedy, and subject alphabetically. Being a quick reference to
find the cause, remedy and prevention for troubles, and to
become an expert with his own engine. Pocket size. Paper
binding. Price =25 cents=


=Modern Gas Engines and Producer Gas Plants.= By R. E. MATHOT.

A guide for the gas engine designer, user, and engineer in the
construction, selection, purchase, installation, operation, and
maintenance of gas engines. More than one book on gas engines
has been written, but not one has thus far even encroached on
the field covered by this book. Above all, Mr. Mathot's work is
a practical guide. Recognizing the need of a volume that would
assist the gas engine user in understanding thoroughly the motor
upon which he depends for power, the author has discussed his
subject without the help of any mathematics and without
elaborate theoretical explanations. Every part of the gas engine
is described in detail, tersely, clearly, with a thorough
understanding of the requirements of the mechanic. Helpful
suggestions as to the purchase of an engine, its installation,
care, and operation, form a most valuable feature of the work.
320 pages, 175 detailed illustrations. Price =$2.50=


=The Modern Gas Tractor.= By VICTOR W. PAGÃ‰, M. E.

A complete treatise describing all types and sizes of gasoline,
kerosene and oil tractors. Considers design and construction
exhaustively, gives complete instructions for care, operation
and repair, outlines all practical applications on the road and
in the field. The best and latest work on farm tractors and
tractor power plants. A work needed by farmers, students,
blacksmiths, mechanics, salesmen, implement dealers, designers
and engineers. 2nd Edition, Revised. 504 pages, 228
illustrations, 3 folding plates. Price =$2.00=

