WHAT IS SAID OF THIS BOOK:

"This is a lathe book from beginning to end, and is just the
kind of a book which one delights to consult--a masterly
treatment of the subject in hand."--_Engineering News._

"This work will be of exceptional interest to any one who is
interested in lathe practice, as one very seldom sees such a
complete treatise on a subject as this is on the
lathe."--_Canadian Machinery._


=Practical Metal Turning.= By JOSEPH G. HORNER.

A work of 404 pages, fully illustrated, covering in a
comprehensive manner the modern practice of machining metal
parts in the lathe, including the regular engine lathe, its
essential design, its uses, its tools, its attachments, and the
manner of holding the work and performing the operations. The
modernized engine lathe, its methods, tools and great range of
accurate work. The turret lathe, its tools, accessories and
methods of performing its functions. Chapters on special work,
grinding, tool holders, speeds, feeds, modern tool steels, etc.
Second edition =$3.50=


=Turning and Boring Tapers.= By FRED H. COLVIN.

There are two ways to turn tapers; the right way and one other.
This treatise has to do with the right way; it tells you how to
start the work properly, how to set the lathe, what tools to use
and how to use them, and forty and one other little things that
you should know. Fourth edition =25 cents=


~LIQUID AIR~


=Liquid Air and the Liquefaction of Gases.= By T. O'CONOR SLOANE.

This book gives the history of the theory, discovery and
manufacture of Liquid Air, and contains an illustrated
description of all the experiments that have excited the wonder
of audiences all over the country. It shows how liquid air, like
water, is carried hundreds of miles and is handled in open
buckets. It tells what may be expected from it in the near
future.

A book that renders simple one of the most perplexing chemical
problems of the century. Startling developments illustrated by
actual experiments.

