It is not only a work of scientific interest and authority, but
is intended for the general reader, being written in a popular
style--easily understood by every one. Second edition. 365
pages. Price =$2.00=


~LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEERING~


=Air-Brake Catechism.= By ROBERT H. BLACKALL.

This book is a standard text-book. It covers the Westinghouse
Air-Brake Equipment, including the No. 5 and the No. 6 E.-T.
Locomotive Brake Equipment; the K (Quick Service) Triple Valve
for Freight Service; and the Cross-Compound Pump. The operation
of all parts of the apparatus is explained in detail, and a
practical way of finding their peculiarities and defects, with a
proper remedy, is given. It contains 2,000 questions with their
answers, which will enable any railroad man to pass any
examination on the subject of Air Brakes. Endorsed and used by
air-brake instructors and examiners on nearly every railroad in
the United States. Twenty-sixth edition. 411 pages, fully
illustrated with colored plates and diagrams. Price =$2.00=


=American Compound Locomotives.= By FRED H. COLVIN.

The only book on compounds for the engineman or shopman that
shows in a plain, practical way the various features of compound
locomotives in use. Shows how they are made, what to do when
they break down or balk. Contains sections as follows: A Bit of
History. Theory of Compounding Steam Cylinders. Baldwin
Two-Cylinder Compound. Pittsburg Two-Cylinder Compound. Rhode
Island Compound. Richmond Compound. Rogers Compound. Schenectady
Two-Cylinder Compound. Vauclain Compound. Tandem Compounds.
Baldwin Tandem. The Colvin-Wightman Tandem. Schenectady Tandem.
Balanced Locomotives. Baldwin Balanced Compound. Plans for
Balancing. Locating Blows. Breakdowns. Reducing Valves.
Drifting. Valve Motion. Disconnecting. Power of Compound
Locomotives. Practical Notes.

Fully illustrated and containing ten special "Duotone" inserts
on heavy Plate Paper, showing different types of Compounds. 142
pages. Price =$1.00=

