
=HENLEY'S ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL ENGINEERING AND ALLIED TRADES.=
EDITED by JOSEPH G. HORNER, A.M.I., M.E.

This set of five volumes contains about 2,500 pages with
thousands of illustrations, including diagrammatic and sectional
drawings with full explanatory details. This work covers the
entire practice of Civil and Mechanical Engineering. The best
known experts in all branches of engineering have contributed to
these volumes. The Cyclopedia is admirably well adapted to the
needs of the beginner and the self-taught practical man, as well
as the mechanical engineer, designer, draftsman, shop
superintendent, foreman, and machinist. The work will be found a
means of advancement to any progressive man. It is encyclopedic
in scope, thorough and practical in its treatment on technical
subjects, simple and clear in its descriptive matter, and
without unnecessary technicalities or formul√¶. The articles are
as brief as may be and yet give a reasonably clear and explicit
statement of the subject, and are written by men who have had
ample practical experience in the matters of which they write.
It tells you all you want to know about engineering and tells it
so simply, so clearly, so concisely, that one cannot help but
understand. As a work of reference it is without a peer.
Complete set of five volumes, price =$25.00=


=The Modern Machinist.= By JOHN T. USHER.

This is a book, showing by plain description and by profuse
engravings made expressly for the work, all that is best, most
advanced, and of the highest efficiency in modern machine-shop
practice, tools and implements, showing the way by which and
through which, as Mr. Maxim says "American machinists have
become and are the finest mechanics in the world." Indicating as
it does, in every line, the familiarity of the author with every
detail of daily experience in the shop, it cannot fail to be of
service to any man practically connected with the shaping or
finishing of metals.

