A practical treatise for the stationary engineer, telling how to
erect, adjust, and run the principal steam engines in use in the
United States. Describing the principal features of various
special and well-known makes of engines: Temper Cut-off,
Shipping and Receiving Foundations, Erecting and Starting, Valve
Setting, Care and Use, Emergencies, Erecting and Adjusting
Special Engines.

The questions asked throughout the catechism are plain and to
the point, and the answers are given in such simple language as
to be readily understood by anyone. All the instructions given
are complete and up-to-date; and they are written in a popular
style, without any technicalities or mathematical formul√¶. The
work is of a handy size for the pocket, clearly and well
printed, nicely bound, and profusely illustrated.

To young engineers this catechism will be of great value,
especially to those who may be preparing to go forward to be
examined for certificates of competency; and to engineers
generally it will be of no little service, as they will find in
this volume more really practical and useful information than is
to be found anywhere else within a like compass. 387 pages. 7th
Edition. Price =$2.00=


=Modern Steam Engineering in Theory and Practice.= By GARDNER D. HISCOX.

This is a complete and practical work issued for Stationary
Engineers and Firemen, dealing with the care and management of
boilers, engines, pumps, superheated steam, refrigerating
machinery, dynamos, motors, elevators, air compressors, and all
other branches with which the modern engineer must be familiar.
Nearly 200 questions with their answers on steam and electrical
engineering, likely to be asked by the Examining Board, are
included.

Among the chapters are: Historical: steam and its properties;
appliances for the generation of steam; types of boilers;
chimney and its work; heat economy of the feed water; steam
pumps and their work; incrustation and its work; steam above
atmospheric pressure; flow of steam from nozzles; superheated
steam and its work; adiabatic expansion of steam; indicator and
its work; steam engine proportions; slide valve engines and
valve motion; Corliss engine and its valve gear; compound engine
and its theory; triple and multiple expansion engine; steam
turbine; refrigeration; elevators and their management; cost of
power; steam engine troubles; electric power and electric
plants. 487 pages, 405 engravings. 3rd Edition. Price =$3.00=

