
=Steam Engine Catechism.= By ROBERT GRIMSHAW.

This unique volume of 413 pages is not only a catechism on the
question and answer principle but it contains formulas and
worked-out answers for all the Steam problems that appertain to
operation and management of the Steam Engine. Illustrations of
various valves and valve gear with their principles of operation
are given. Thirty-four Tables that are indispensable to every
engineer and fireman that wishes to be progressive and is
ambitious to become master of his calling are within its pages.
It is a most valuable instructor in the service of Steam
Engineering. Leading engineers have recommended it as a valuable
educator for the beginner as well as a reference book for the
engineer. It is thoroughly indexed for every detail. Every
essential question on the Steam Engine with its answer is
contained in this valuable work. 16th Edition. Price =$2.00=


=Steam Engineer's Arithmetic.= By COLVIN-CHENEY.

A practical pocket-book for the steam engineer. Shows how to
work the problems of the engine room and shows "why." Tells how
to figure horsepower of engines and boilers; area of boilers;
has tables of areas and circumferences; steam tables; has a
dictionary of engineering terms. Puts you on to all of the
little kinks in figuring whatever there is to figure around a
power plant. Tells you about the heat unit; absolute zero;
adiabatic expansion; duty of engines; factor of safety; and a
thousand and one other things; and everything is plain and
simple--not the hardest way to figure, but the easiest. 2nd
Edition. Price =50 Cents=


=Engine Tests and Boiler Efficiencies.= By J. BUCHETTI.

This work fully describes and illustrates the method of testing
the power of steam engines, turbines and explosive motors. The
properties of steam and the evaporative power of fuels.
Combustion of fuel and chimney draft; with formulas explained or
practically computed. 255 pages, 179 illustrations. Price
=$3.00=

