Round went the winch, but on this occasion less swiftly than before, for
the load to be dragged from the hold was heavier! But still the handles
flew round rapidly, and within a short space of time Tyler, the officer,
and the American mate lay in a heap upon the deck, where they were
instantly pounced upon by those who had helped in the rescue.




CHAPTER II

Eastward Ho!


How's that, my lad? There, open your eyes and look about you, and then
take a sip at this glass."

Tyler felt a strong arm about his shoulders, and a hard rim of something
cold against his teeth. Then a few drops of water flowed into his
mouth, and instantly he was awake, though only half conscious of his
surroundings.

"Eh," he murmured, "what's the matter? Time to get up? Oh!"

He gave vent to a little cry of pain as he suddenly became aware of the
fact that a red-hot band seemed to encircle his waist. Then he quickly
realized the cause, and sat up with a start, remembering that he had
placed a coil of rope about him, and that the loop to which the officer
was hung must have pulled strongly upon him.

"Feeling sore, my lad?" was asked in tones which seemed familiar. "The
rope had hitched as tight as a hangman's noose, and we had to cut it
adrift before we could free you. No wonder you have pain, for I expect
that your sides and chest are badly chafed. But you're alive, thank God!
And have come to at last. Gracious! What a fright you have given us all!
But come, see if you cannot stand on your feet and walk about, for it
will do you all the good in the world."

"Stand! Rather! I should think I could!" responded Tyler eagerly,
suddenly becoming aware of the fact that the elderly naval officer
supported him. "Thank you, sir! I'll get up at once."

"Then heave, and there you are."

Placing his hand beneath Tyler's arms, the officer helped him to rise
to his feet, and then, fearful lest he should be giddy and fall, stood
beside him holding him by the coat.

