Bustling about in the depths of the schooner he quickly unearthed the
various articles of which he had spoken, and rapidly made a selection.
Then he came climbing to the deck, his arms loaded with weapons and
ammunition. Half an hour later John Marshall had followed his young
leader's example, and was dressed in the suit which Mr. Beverley was to
have worn. Slinging the bags over their shoulders, the two carefully
deposited in one of them an abundance of ammunition, which they had
calculated should last them with ordinary care for a considerable
period. Into the other each dropped a number of gaudy articles with
which to please the eye of any of the Dyak tribes with whom they might
come in contact. Weapons were now loaded, each of the young fellows
selecting a rifle, while a light fowling-piece was placed near at hand,
which they would take it in turns to carry. Feeling now that they had
done all that was possible, they sat down upon the deck in their old
position and waited for the morning. Nor was their patience destined
to be severely tried, for hardly was their meal finished than the sky
in the east broke suddenly, the dark clouds giving place to a bank of
dull-gray vapour. Five minutes and the latter was tinged with a rosy
hue, to change again to a glorious golden colour. Then up shot the sun,
and ere they could believe it, another eventful day was full upon them.
Instantly both searched the coast-line of Borneo and the sea in every
direction.

"The prahu," cried Tyler in startled tones, "and far closer to us than I
should have wished! See, she has already sighted us, and is bearing down
in our direction!"

"Then we must make for that bay," said the boatswain quietly. "It's a
bit of luck that we have hit it off so nicely, for I reckon that with
this wind we should reach the shore an hour ahead of the prahu. Over
with the tiller, sir, and then leave the steering to me, while you go
for'ard and train the six-pounder round upon her."

