"We have delayed long enough already," he said, as he stood there
listening to distant shouts which came echoing through the forest,
"and I think that it is high time that we waded in and set out for the
opposite shore. Is all in readiness now?"

"All but the weapons, sir. We've to lash them to our raft, and then we
can begin the swim as soon as we like. Your ammunition-bag, please, and
now your rifle and revolvers. That's the sort, Mr. Richardson. Mine join
yours, and this length of creeper fixes the lot properly. Now for the
river, and I jest hope that that fellow Hanns Schlott and his covies
won't get a sight of us."

"And I too," was Tyler's emphatic answer. "A very great deal depends
upon our getting across unseen, and once there I propose that we take
to our heels and run for all that we are worth, so as to put a good
distance between ourselves and the pirates. Come, John, I will take my
post at one side of the raft and will push with my left hand, while you
use the opposite one."

Assuring themselves that their weapons were securely fastened to the
upper surface of the reeds, and that the latter were of sufficient
thickness to make it certain that the top would be above the surface of
the water, they began to direct their strange craft through the swamp,
guiding it carefully amongst the trees. Soon they were at a point where
the belt of jungle and swamp came to an end, and here they paused while
Tyler waded out into the stream and looked carefully about him.

"All serene!" he called out gently, after looking to left and right;
then, rejoining his companion, the two urged the raft into the river.
Very soon they were out of their depth and were forced to swim, on this
occasion finding the task of crossing to the opposite shore far easier
than before. Indeed, now that they were freed of the dead-weight of the
ammunition-bags, their progress seemed to be unusually rapid, and ere
they could have expected it they were wading in shallow water once more.

