Strange, indeed, was the sight, and for long did Tyler and his men look
on, though to John Marshall and to his leader it was one which they had
never witnessed before. As if fascinated they watched as the pirates
flung their limbs into the air and swung their arms aloft, while they
wondered how long they would be able to continue, and where came the
pleasure of such rapid movement. Then each one began to observe that
less energy was displayed, while some of the dancers had entirely given
in, and lay as if asleep upon the ground.

"The drink telling," whispered John Marshall. "Them chaps'll be asleep
afore very long, and then it'll be our turn to play the tune. I reckon
it's getting towards morning, too; so the sooner they go off the better
it'll be. How long will yer give 'em to settle, sir?"

"No more than half an hour. By then the majority will be asleep, and we
shall only have the women to fear. Besides, the first part of our work
should be carried out noiselessly, while the tribe should be embarked
without giving any alarm. It is during the last part, when I attempt to
enter the stronghold, that we shall have to be most cautious, and it is
then that we can expect trouble."

"A fig for the trouble, sir!" cried John Marshall, snapping his fingers.
"Them fellers is too much overcome already to be able to do much
fighting, and if it comes to hand-grips with them, why, I reckon I know
who'll get the best of the scuffle. Don't you worry, Mr. Richardson, for
if they drop upon you when you're inside, me and the men with me will
rush in and bring you out. Hist! Didn't I hear something over there?
Listen and see if you can't make it out."

At once he became rigid in every limb, while his eyes seemed to start
from their sockets. Then he stretched across to where Tyler was
crouching, and taking him by the arm, directed his attention to the
second of the two booms, which guarded the other river at the point
where it flowed into the main channel of the Sarebus.

