Well might each member of the watching tribe of Dyaks ask the question,
for the movements of their leader seemed unaccountable. But Tyler knew
well what he was doing, and sounds which failed to spread so far as the
men lying on the bank without the stockade, or those others waiting
aboard the prahus, reached his ears distinctly.

"There is someone moving," he said to himself, as he reached the hut
which harboured the prisoners. "Who can it be? Perhaps some fellow
turning in his couch."

Sitting up as high as possible, he listened eagerly, and then crept on a
few paces. Then of a sudden he became aware of the fact that a door had
been thrown open, and realizing that the sound came from the Dutchman's
hut, he scrambled hastily behind the one close to which he was crouching.

"Hanns Schlott!" he exclaimed in tones of vexation. "His guilty mind
will not allow him to sleep, and so he has come out to walk about the
clearing. Ah, I have had my mind so fully occupied that I did not notice
that it is already getting light, and he will be able to see me! Yes,
even now I can observe his figure."

Staring through the mist and haze, which had so suddenly risen, Tyler
watched the Dutchman emerge from his abode and stalk out into the
clearing. Then, realizing with a start that to delay would be more
dangerous than to proceed with the rescue, he waited for a few moments
to allow a second hut to come between himself and the Dutchman, and then
scrambled at his fastest pace to the door which would give access to the
dwelling within which were the prisoners. A second later he had thrust
it in, and was crawling through the opening.

"Who is that?" he heard someone demand in frightened tones, while there
was the sound of a shriek commenced but suddenly arrested. "Oh, what is
happening to us?"

"Hush! Do not make a sound for your lives," answered Tyler in low tones,
crawling right into the hut and closing the door. "Do not be frightened,
for I have come to help you and take you away."

