"If those below will let you," laughed Tyler, feeling now as though a
load of anxious care had been lifted from his mind. "But, as you say,
Li, it does not matter very much, for the tribe is now a hundred times
better off than an hour ago, for we have ships, and we have weapons, and
there is liberty and freedom before us. But here is the ship. Up we go!"

Thanks to the careful drilling which the Dyaks had received there was no
confusion at this, almost the last stage of their adventurous journey.
Obedient to the orders of their leader, those who had been told off to
look to the English schooner had warped her round till her head pointed
down-stream, and had then hung on to her, prepared at any moment to tow
her towards the bend, while two of their comrades, placed in a sampan
at the stern, severed the cables with their swords. Waiting, therefore,
for a shout from Tyler, they pulled at their sweeps, and hardly had the
rescued prisoners and their escort scrambled aboard than the schooner
was under weigh.

"We will keep in rear," said Tyler, calling John Marshall to his side.
"Take the tiller, my lad, and keep her in the centre of the stream.
I will go with Li Sung, and will arrange to have a sail or two bent.
There will be no difficulty either, for many are hanging in their places
half-furled."

"And what wind there is is down-stream," added the boatswain. "Give the
sheets a pull to bring 'em tight, and then get the darkies to shy a
bucket or two of water over the sails. It'll make 'em draw, and send us
along bowling."

"I'll see what can be done about guns, too," went on Tyler, "for I fancy
that we shall have to fight for it later on. But it will be a small
affair compared with what we have had already, and somehow I don't seem
to mind much."

"And I don't think no more of the idea than that," burst in the sailor,
snapping his fingers. "I'm jest light-hearted, I am, and I keeps on
a-roaring at the Dutchman. Lor', didn't he catch it!"

