The honest fellow went to the tiller with a broad grin upon his
features, looking a peculiar object indeed as he stood there in his
strange garb of a Dyak. As for Tyler, it was a wonder that he did not
see the ridiculous side of his appearance also, for the swim across the
river had not improved his disguise by any means. In fact the merest
glance was sufficient to show that he was no native, for long white
streaks extended from his neck to his feet, while his face presented a
mottled appearance. Then, owing to his swim across the river, and to
the subsequent grovelling in mud and in the dust within the stockade,
he had obtained a coating which matched but badly with the stain of the
betel-nut, while his waist-cloth and turban were much discoloured. But
he had no time for the subject, and indeed, when he looked toward the
stern to see the boatswain in similar attire, he found nothing wrong,
nothing out of the ordinary, and it seemed only what was to be expected
to have a big raw-boned native there, watching the rigging with nautical
eye, and standing at his tiller in a business-like manner which showed
that he was a sailor born and bred.

"The sails first and the guns afterwards," said Tyler, running forward
with Li Sung. "Get to work, like a good fellow, and take charge of one
gang. I will do what I can with the other."

Thanks to the fact that the vessel had been sailed into the river, and
that those who had captured her had not taken the trouble to strip her
of her canvas, but had merely furled the sheets to the yards, the new
owners of the schooner had little difficulty in setting a large amount
of sail, so much so that ere long those on board the prahu were being
overhauled, and seeing that their sweeps were no longer needed, prepared
to come aboard.

"Make her fast to the stern and we will drop a ladder for you," shouted
Tyler, Li Sung interpreting the order. "She may be useful to us later
on, or I would have her scuttled. Now, how are the others doing?"

