"I must just do my best, and after all this is a duty for which I have
been selected," he said to himself, as he curled his limbs on the floor
of the prahu. "If all goes well, then it will be a fine thing, and no
doubt the commander of the _Dido_ will be pleased. If we are captured or
get into trouble it will be by mischance, and I shall probably not be
alive to mind. In any case I cannot alter the future by worrying now, so
I'll get a good long sleep so as to be fresh for to-morrow."

With this resolution made, he closed his eyes, and, lulled by the sough
of the wind as it bellied the great sail overhead, and by the hiss and
swish of water alongside, he quickly lost consciousness, and did not
awake till day was dawning.

"Time to open de eyes," said Li Sung as he gently shook his young
master. "Velly soon we able to see far, and by den dese two China boys
better be hidden away out of de sight."

"And the sooner we are in safe quarters the better," exclaimed Tyler,
springing to his feet and rubbing the sleep out of his eyes. "Over with
the helm, and let us run in to the land. With a wooded coast before us
we shall have no difficulty in finding a likely spot, and then we two--a
couple of friendly China boys, as you say--will hide up for the day,
and make ready to satisfy our appetites. Ah, the darkness is lifting
rapidly, and there is the coast!"

As he spoke he lifted his hand and pointed to a high-lying stretch of
land, a strip of the north-western coast of Borneo, which had just come
into view.

"Good!" he exclaimed, noticing that it was thickly wooded down to the
water's edge. "There will be ample cover there, and as it is just
commencing to rain we are not likely to be seen by anyone. Give the
tiller over to me, Li Sung, and go forward. If you post yourself in the
bows you will be able to keep a look-out for shoals and rocks, and can
shout a warning to me. Just pull in that sheet as you go, and we shall
sail all the quicker."

