Grasping the helm, Tyler set the prahu in the direction of the coast,
the Chinaman pulling in the sail till it stretched taut across the mast
and allowed them to sail their craft close-hauled. Then, obedient to
the order of his young master, he went forward into the bows, where,
reclining at full length, he fastened his pigtail in a knot at the back
of his head to keep it from trailing in the water, and then bent his
gaze on the surface before him.

"If massa puts de helm a little up we strikee straight for a small place
between de trees," he said when they had sailed for some ten minutes
through the driving rain. "Li see a creek dere, and he say dat if we
sail de prahu right in, den we hidden, and no one see us, for dey all in
deir huts just now."

Following the direction indicated by his companion, Tyler pointed
the prahu for the opening, which was dimly visible, and soon had the
satisfaction of arriving within a few lengths of a rift between the
trees, through which a clear stream of water was issuing.

"A tiny river," he said to himself, "and just the place for us, for it
will give us shelter, and at the same time will allow us to get our
drinking-supply without leaving the vessel. Lower away that sail, Li,
for the way on her will carry us in; and stand ready to make fast to a
tree. I shall run her in till well out of sight of any who may happen to
be cruising along the coast, though we must not go too far, and above
all we must find out that there are no natives near at hand. Remember
that secrecy is a thing which we have to think of, and our lives may
very well depend upon how we observe it."

"Li him knowee dat well, massa," was the answer, the Chinaman nodding
his head at Tyler in a manner which seemed to say that he was a cunning
fellow. "China boy not wishee to have de head cuttee off. He likee him
life, and him can be velly silent when him want. But mind de rock on de
side of de opening, for it am big, and de water rises about it."

