It was strange to hear his quaint suggestion, and at another time Tyler
would have been amused at the na√Øveness of it. But danger threatened
now, and life was at stake. As Li Sung interpreted the message, word for
word, a feeling almost of fear assailed our hero, and his heart sank at
the prospect of early death. Then, remembering that he and his companion
were as yet unseen, and that they might still do as well as formerly,
his spirits rose, and he turned to the Chinaman with a smile upon his
face.

"We will lie like mice and make no move. At least that is what I say.
For you, Li Sung, you may issue from our hiding-place if you wish, and
descend. For myself, the idea of being beheaded is sufficient to make me
fight like a tiger and until I am killed."

"And for me, too, massa. De Chinee boy been wid de Malays, and he know
dat dey not tink de same of life. A man am happy in dis world, but when
him dead he happier still, so dey say. And when de time come for choppee
de head, dey kneel wid a laugh on dem lips, and dey die easy. Chinamen
am de same, but Li velly different. He not likee to lose de life, for he
havee little wife and child in Singapore."

"Then we will stay quietly here and await events. Those fellows will
scarcely dare to return to Rembas and tell their comrades that they have
been defeated by two men alone, and for that reason they will remain
till they see that their case is hopeless. That will suit us well, for
we can easily beat them off, and if only we can defer the arrival of
reinforcements till night has fallen, we shall have a better chance of
escape. But what are they doing?"

Thrusting his head as close to the boulders as was possible, he peered
through the narrow opening and watched the party of pirates with
interest. As for the latter, the fact that their extraordinary demand
had met with no reply, and that silence alone had followed, filled them
with astonishment; for these Malays, with their comrades of the Dyak
race who had thrown in their lot with the men of the sea in place of
tilling the soil as did so many of their people, had a peculiar code of
their own, and held life in such little esteem that, as in China, it was
almost possible to buy a reprieve for one about to die by paying for a
substitute. Fate was fate to them, and when all was lost, when sickness
came, and when capture seemed imminent, it was a simple and an easy way
to step forward to meet the inevitable, and to pass from the world
with as little trouble as possible. Then was this not a desperate case?
Could those above who were hidden on the rock hope to escape? Absurd!
They were cornered, and sooner or later, and in any case within an hour
or two, they would be captives, and their fate would be upon them. Then
why go to the labour of putting it off? Why not come down and end the
matter, so that these men might return to the opposite shore and prepare
to meet the foreigners who were about to enter the river? Extraordinary
though the idea was, it was in keeping with the upbringing of the Malays
and the Dyaks, for they, like the Chinese, thought nothing of death, and
met their end for the most part with a smile upon their faces. However,
on this occasion the pirates had foes to deal with of a different
stamp, and finding that no answer came to their warning, they collected
together again to discuss the situation.

