"That should stop them," exclaimed Tyler as he watched the body fall,
"and it was a capital shot, Li Sung. I watched him, and feel sure that
the stone must have battered a hole in his skull. But wait. Will they go
after all, or are they determined to come closer to us?"

Once again it was a doubtful point whether the Malays would retire on
the death of their comrade, or whether they would push up the face of
the rock and come to hand-grips with those whom they were attacking.
Indeed, it wanted very little to cause their determination to waver and
send them down to the bank, or to infuse fresh courage into their hearts
and cause them to dash headlong at their enemies. They paused, looked
doubtfully at one another, and then turned to watch the body of the man
who had gone to the bank below. Then one of them happened to cast a
glance across the river, as if to measure the distance in case he wished
to make good his escape. Instantly his eye fell upon the three sampans
which were being rowed across, and realizing that they must contain
companions and brothers-in-arms who were coming to help, he shouted a
few words to his comrades.

"They will jeer at us," he cried, attracting the attention of all to
the approaching boats. "When they learn that there are only two on this
rock, and that we have failed to take them, they will bid us return to
Rembas and mind the children and the flocks! We must capture and kill
these beggarly Chinamen. Who will follow me?"

For a moment he turned to stare at his brothers, and then, with
flashing kriss in his hand, and eyes fixed upon the low wall with its
covering of bush, he came clambering up towards it, ready to leap the
obstacle as soon as he was near enough, and slaughter those who lay
behind. As for the others, stung to the quick by the thought that their
companions of Rembas would jeer and laugh at them, they turned with
desperation to renew the assault, determined to die there rather than be
dishonoured.

