"You see," he said, suddenly turning upon Li Sung, "they know that we
have seen them land, and that their boats are pulled up there. They have
been in that position ever since they came, and they will reckon that
we shall keep away from it as far as possible. Is that not what others
would do?"

For answer the Chinaman gently scratched the top of his head, for though
cunning he was no reasoner, and, to tell the truth, had he been alone
would have elected to go in the opposite direction to that which his
leader had suggested.

"Well," demanded Tyler, staring into his face eagerly, "what would a man
of your country do? What would you do?"

"Me go de oder way. Me slip into de forest and runnee for de life,"
gasped Li Sung.

"And that is what the majority of fellows would do. That is what the
pirates would do, and will expect of us. Then we take the road I have
pointed out, and if we are discovered--"

"Li Sung plenty knowee den," exclaimed his follower, snatching at his
knife and brandishing it in the air. "Li not care how he go, so long as
massa lead de way; but he can fight. He hate de pirate!"

"Then we will settle the matter, for it is already almost time to set
out."

For some thirty minutes the two crouched there on their perch,
discussing their plans and listening eagerly for sounds of the enemy.
Then, having tucked their revolvers into their belts, and swung their
rifles over their shoulders, they began to creep down the steep slope of
the rock, taking a line which would bring them to the spot where they
had hidden the boat. Soon slight sounds came to their ears, and as they
halted to listen each realized that the enemy was on either hand and
behind, and that the noise which they could hear was made by the pirates
as they stole through the forest to take up their positions.

"They are preparing to catch us, but are not quite ready yet," whispered
Tyler. "Then we will not waste a moment, for while they move into
position we will slip away."

