"He would make believe that he cannot stand. He is a cunning dog!" cried
one of them. "Let us try again, and set something beneath him to keep
him upright. Ah, perhaps the point of a knife will help him!"

Once more Tyler was hoisted to his feet, while the ruffian who had
spoken last whipped a knife from his waist-cloth, and held it so that
the prisoner would meet with an injury if he was so foolish as to fall.
Then his comrades were in the act of starting aside when a by-stander
interfered.

"You will kill the man and rob us of our fun," he called out suddenly,
starting forward as he did so. "See! Have you no eyes? The fellow is
weak with loss of blood, and here is the spot from which it comes."

He pointed to the arm where the knife had struck some few hours before,
and then to the garments below, which were stained red with blood.
As for Tyler, he made no movement, but watched his captors through
half-closed eyes; for he had a difficult game to play, and felt that the
moment was a critical one.

"If I show fight, or am strong and can walk, they will treat me badly,"
he had said to himself as he lay upon the floor of the boat and thought
the matter out. "Then their chief will have me brought before him, and
will endeavour to get some information from me; for the chances are that
he will guess that I have something to do with the English of Sarawak. I
should refuse, of course, and then, seeing that I was of no further use,
he would give the order for my execution. That will not suit me, for
my object is to gain time. Captain Keppel will be at the mouth of the
river by now, and Li Sung will reach him to-night. To-morrow night at
the earliest is the hour when I may expect them. I must pretend to know
a lot, and yet be too weak to talk. Then in the hope of getting news
from me when I am stronger they will curb their impatience and treat me
well. Also, finding that I am helpless, they will not be so watchful,
and perhaps I may manage to give them the slip."

