"He hopes to attack me in the shadow," thought Tyler, at his wits' end
how to act. "If I stay here he will crawl into the shadow higher up, and
will then come down beside the wall of the hut, where I shall be unable
to see him. That will not do, and as it is clear that I am discovered,
and that I shall have to fight for my life, I too will make for the
open. If he gives a shout I shall fire and then run for my life."

His mind made up to act in this manner, he threw himself on hands and
knees also, and at once crawled out into the open, one weapon thrust
into his girdle, and the other held in his right hand. And thus, like
two panthers awaiting the moment to spring upon one another, the two
ghostly figures advanced across the open. Rapidly did the distance
between them lessen, till at last only some fifteen feet separated the
combatants. Now was the time to act, and as each grasped the fact, they
sprang to their feet. Instantly Tyler's figure stiffened, his arm swung
up to the horizontal, and he covered his man with an aim which never
left the mark, and which never trembled in spite of his excitement. As
for his opponent, he seemed even taller and more forbidding than before,
and as he stood to his full height, and raised his naked weapon above
his head, the rays of the moon flashed upon him, increasing the ferocity
of his appearance. But Tyler was not to be frightened so easily, and
indeed scarcely seemed to have taken note of the features of the man.
As if to make more certain of his aim he squinted along the barrel of
his revolver and elevated the muzzle just a little till it lit upon some
object which glinted brightly upon the naked chest of the man. Then
his finger went to the trigger, there was a pause, and slowly the grip
tightened. A second and the haunt of the river pirates would have been
awakened by the report of a shot, when an exclamation of astonishment
burst from our hero.

"What!" he exclaimed in low tones. "Can it be possible, or am I
dreaming?"

