Turning away from the men as they sent up another cheer, the commander
inspected Tyler closely, and then spoke again.

"You have had a rough time, that I can perceive at a glance," he said
with a start. "You are wounded, and there is a hunted look on your face.
Come below. A good meal and a glass of wine will do you no harm, and
then you can let me have your information."

Taking his junior by the arm he led him to the companion, and ushered
him into the cabin. Then he called for food and drink, and would not
hear a word from Tyler till the latter had had his wants satisfied. Then
the ship's surgeon was called in, and speedily dressed the wound.

"A clean cut, which would have done better had it been dressed at once,"
he said, as he looked at the arm critically. "But that, of course, is
not always possible. Yes, there has been severe hemorrhage, and by the
appearance of your cheeks you are still somewhat weak from loss of
blood. But that is a matter which can soon be set right. Shall I place
Mr. Richardson on the sick-list, sir."

For answer Captain Keppel smiled at our hero, and then turned to his
interrogator.

"Ask the lad himself," he said with a laugh. "He does not look to me
like the fellow who would willingly miss the fun which we have before
us."

"Well, what do you say? Shall it be the sick-list and a bunk in the
sick-bay, or a hammock and a good sleep in your own quarters?" demanded
the doctor.

"The last, please," answered Tyler without hesitation. "As to the wound,
it is really nothing, I assure you. The kriss went through the arm, and
almost dropped out by its own weight. It does not hurt at all, and all
that I have suffered has been from loss of blood. To that I owe the
fact that I am alive at this moment. But I am dog-tired and want a
sleep."

"Then you shall have it, my lad," cried the commander. "But first I must
get your news, for time is precious and we have much to do. Come, out
with it, and then off to your hammock."

