"Their women and children and all their possessions are up the stream,"
he said, when he had questioned the Malay, "and so they wish to lay down
their arms on any terms, but with the hope that we will spare those who
are helpless."

"Where is their leader?" asked the commander of the _Dido_. "They must
hand him over to me immediately, for he is a murderer, and I have more
interest in capturing the fellow than in taking hundreds of these
natives."

"They say that that is impossible," was the Rajah's answer, when he had
again spoken with the Malay who bore the white flag. "Hanns Schlott, the
murderer, bolted early in the night, and has not been seen since."

"Then they must provide trackers and a force to go in search," said
Captain Keppel without hesitation. "Mr. Richardson, you will take half a
dozen men and go in command, for I will not deprive you of a task which
belongs to you by rights. Get your breakfast at once, and set out as
soon as you can. Now, Rajah, we will discuss this matter in full, and
then I fancy that you, like myself, will be glad of something to eat."

At a shout from the Malay several of the head men amongst the pirates
came forward, and entered into conversation with the great white man of
whom all had heard. Thanks to the fact that the Rajah spoke the language
like a native of Borneo the negotiations were soon completed, and in
less than half an hour it had been arranged that a final meeting should
take place in the afternoon, when the terms to be granted should be
published. When that hour arrived, the chiefs came forward once more,
looking dejected and down at heart, and sat down in a circle about the
Rajah. Great was their surprise and delight when they were told that
only hostages would be required for their good behaviour, and that they
were to abstain from piracy, or their country would be again invaded.
Beyond that there was no punishment, but they were urgently advised to
take to trade and live at peace with their neighbours.

