By far the most interesting naval records of this dynasty are the
accounts, in the temple of DÃªr-el-Bahari close to Thebes, of the famous
expedition to the land of Punt, carried out by order of that remarkable
woman Queen Hatshepsu, who was the daughter of Thotmes I., half-sister
and wife of Thotmes II., and aunt and step-mother of the famous king
Thotmes III. She appears to have been called by her father during his
lifetime to share the throne with him, and to have practically usurped
the government during the reign of her husband and during the early
years of the reign of her nephew.

The expedition to the land of Punt was evidently one of the most
remarkable events of her reign. It took place about 1600 B.C.--that is
to say, about three centuries before the Exodus. The history of the
undertaking is given at great length on the retaining wall of one of the
terraces of the temple, and the various scenes and events are
illustrated by carvings on the same wall, in as complete a manner as
though the expedition had taken place in the present time, and had been
accompanied by the artists of one of our pictorial newspapers.
Fortunately, the great bulk of the carvings and inscriptions remain to
this day, and we possess, therefore, a unique record of a trading
expedition carried out at this remote period.

The carvings comprise representations of the ships going out. The
landing at the "incense terraced-mountain," and the meeting with the
princes and people of this strange land, are also shown. We have
pictures of their pile dwellings, and of the trees and animals of the
country, and also portraits of the King of Punt, of his wife and
children. Lastly, we have representations of the ships returning to
Egypt, laden with the precious incense of the land and with other
merchandise, and also of the triumphant reception of the members of the
expedition at Thebes.

One of the inscriptions relates as follows:[5]--

"The ships were laden to the uttermost with the wonderful products of
the land of Punt, and with the different precious woods of the divine
land, and with heaps of the resin of incense, with fresh incense
trees, with ebony, (objects) of ivory set in pure gold from the land
of the 'Amu, with sweet woods, Khesit-wood, with Ahem incense, holy
resin, and paint for the eyes, with dog-headed apes, with long-tailed
monkeys and greyhounds, with leopard-skins, and with natives of the
country, together with their children. Never was the like brought to
any king (of Egypt) since the world stands."

