[Illustration: FIG. 74.--Archaic Greek bireme. About 800 B.C.]

This Greek bireme, with its shallow hull and lofty, open
superstructure, could hardy have been a seaworthy vessel. The question
arises, What purpose could it have been intended to serve? The rams,
of course, suggest war; but the use of rams appears to have been
pretty general, even in small Greek rowing-boats, and has survived
into our own day in the Venetian gondola. The late Dr. A. S. Murray,
keeper of the Greek and Roman antiquities at the British Museum, who
wrote an account of the vase in the "Journal of Hellenic Studies," is
of opinion that both the subjects on this vase represent processions,
or races, held at the funeral ceremonies of some prominent citizen,
and that, in fact, all the subjects on Dipylon vases seem to refer to
deceased persons. He points out that Virgil mentions in the _Ã†neid_
that games, held in honour of the deceased, commenced with a race of
ships, and that he could hardly have done this if there were no
authority for the practice. The large figures at the stern seem to
point to the bireme of Fig. 74 being about to be used for racing
purposes. The man who is going to step on board is in the act of
taking leave of a woman, who holds away from him a crown, or prize,
for which he may be about to contend. If this view be correct we have,
at once, an explanation of the very peculiar structure of this bireme,
which, with its open sides and small freeboard, could only have been
intended for use in smooth water and, possibly, for racing purposes.

There are several other representations of Greek galleys, or of
fragments of them, in existence. Nearly all have been found on
eighth-century Dipylon vases, but, hitherto, no other specimen has
been found in which all the rowers are seated on an open stage. In the
collection of Dr. Sturge there is a vase of this period, ornamented
with a painting of a bireme, which is as rakish and elegant in
appearance as Fig. 74 is clumsy. It also is propelled by 78, or
perhaps 80, rowers. Those of the lower tier are seated in the body of
the boat, while those of the upper bank on what appears to be a flying
deck connecting the forecastle and poop, and about 3 ft. to 3 ft. 6
in. above the seats of the lower tier.

