In the Museum of the Acropolis there are also some fragments of
Dipylon vases, on which are clearly visible portions of biremes. The
rowers of the lower bank are here again, seated in the hull of the
galley and appear to be working their oars in large square portholes,
while the upper row are seated on a flying deck, the space between
which and the gunwale of the hull is partly closed in by what appear
to be patches of awning or light fencing. The portholes above referred
to are in fact merely open intervals between the closed-in spaces.
Similar lengths of fencing may be seen in the representation of a
Phoenician galley (Fig. 7, p. 27).

From the above description it is not difficult to see how the galley,
with two tiers of oars, came to be evolved from the more primitive
unireme. First, a flying deck was added for the accommodation of the
upper tier of rowers. It formed no part of the structure of the ship,
but was supported on the latter by means of struts, or pillars. The
spaces between the hull and the flying deck at the two ends of the
galley were closed in by a raised forecastle and poop. These additions
were necessary in order to keep the vessel dry, and attempts were no
doubt made to give protection to the remainder of the sides by means
of the patches of light awning mentioned above. The step from this to
carrying the structure of the sides up bodily, till they met the upper
deck, and of cutting portholes for the lower tier of oars, would not
be a long one, and would produce the type of bireme illustrated on p.
31 (Fig. 9).


FOOTNOTES:

[1] This illustration is taken from Mr. Villiers Stuart's work, "Nile
Gleanings."

[2] "A History of Egypt under the Pharaohs," by Dr. Henry Brugsch Bey.
Translated and edited from the German by Philip Smith, B.A.

[3] "Nile Gleanings," p. 309.

[4] The inscription is taken from the "History of Egypt under the
Pharaohs," by Dr. Henry Brugsch Bey. Translated and edited by
Philip Smith, B.A. Second edition, pp. 137, 138.

