Simultaneously there was formed the Aviation Section of the Imperial
Munitions Board, to which section detailed reference is made
elsewhere. Such, in short, were the arrangements which had been
completed when on January 22nd the advance party of the Royal Flying
Corps, Canada, arrived in Toronto.

[Illustration: OBSERVERSâ€™ GUN MOUNTING.

GERMAN GUN MOUNTINGS.]

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--FLYING DUTY OF MACHINES.]

A word about local conditions will not be amiss. The country was,
of course, deep in snow, and the winter period in its most trying
phase. Recruiting, for which methods had still to be formulated, was
complicated by the fact that no Military Service Act was in force in
Canada, and the country had been apparently combed bare of those who
desired to enlist voluntarily. It is true that the Royal Naval Air
Service had for months been drawing excellent material from Canada,
but this unit offered the inducement of a commission on enlistment,
while the R.F.C. held no commissions in its outstretched hands, but
merely the promise of months of arduous work before qualifying for
the distinction. That the Corps was authorized to recruit in Canada
was due to an Order in Council passed by the Canadian Government.
Application was also made to the Department of Militia and Defence
that the unit might be rationed, clothed and medically attended to by
that Department.

An excerpt taken from an early report on Canadian conditions to the
Air Board notes that the Royal Flying Corps, Canada, was an Imperial
unit, paid for by the Imperial Treasury and wholly independent of
local military command. Also that instructions in the first instance
were very indefinite regarding a host of important details, but that
this fact was in the long run a blessing in disguise.

A credit of four millions sterling had been established with the
Imperial Munitions Board for the purposes of the wing, and it now
remained to take action as quickly as possible.

That no time was lost may be gathered from the fact that the large
C.E.F. Camp at Borden, some seventy miles north of Toronto, was
inspected on January 26th, and on the following day a contract was
let under supervision of the Aviation Department of the Board for the
construction of the first Canadian aerodrome on an outlying portion
of this area. It was to comprise fifteen flight sheds, with all
necessary buildings and equipment. Simultaneously, recruiting got
under way. Ground was also provided by the Department of Militia and
Defence at Long Branch, some nine miles west of Toronto, where was
formed the first flying unit of the Royal Flying Corps, Canada.

