During the last week of the month, a contract was let for the
construction of a large factory for the Canadian Aeroplanes Limited,
supplies of engines and machines were secured from the Curtiss
Manufacturing Company at Buffalo, and sites for additional groups of
squadrons were selected at Leaside, three miles north of Toronto;
Armour Heights, four miles still farther north; Rathbun and Mohawk,
130 miles east of Toronto.

Such was the record for nine days’ work. Thus the first of February
found the unit with all major features of its programme settled,
and on the threshold of a development which, as it progressed, was
destined to realize every anticipation.

[Illustration: TRENCH SYSTEM ON WESTERN FRONT.]

[Illustration: G. A. MORROW, ESQ., O.B.E.,

DIRECTOR OF AVIATION, IMPERIAL MUNITIONS BOARD.

SIR JOSEPH FLAVELLE, BART.,

CHAIRMAN, IMPERIAL MUNITIONS BOARD.

SIR FRANK BAILLIE, K.B.E.,

PRESIDENT, CANADIAN AEROPLANES LIMITED.]




AVIATION DEPARTMENT--IMPERIAL MUNITIONS BOARD


This Department formed a many-sided organization, by means of which
the physical and financial wants of the Royal Air Force, Can., were
provided. It secured funds from the War Office, spent and accounted
for them; designed, built, and equipped innumerable structures;
purchased all supplies from the sailmaker’s needle to the aeroplane
and bought materials from countless sources for a vast variety of
needs.

It delved into electrical and mechanical problems, sowed grass,
bored wells, built railways, leased land, secured labour of all
descriptions, engaged lawyers and advanced money. If the Royal Air
Force was an Imperial brigade, this section of the “I.M.B.” was no
less a Canadian civilian battalion, composed of members representing
an officer commanding, paymasters, quartermasters, engineers and
sappers, etc., and maintaining a constant and helpful liaison,
without which a certain history of mutual accomplishments would be
the acme of brevity.

