Aeronautical supplies were in charge of an expert in aeroplanes and
their parts, who stood between the aeroplane factory and the aircraft
equipment section of the brigade. Through him were followed up all
machines, engines and spares ordered by the Purchasing Section.
Contact was maintained hereby with American factories, to which
periodical visits were made when the brigade was dependent on these
extraneous sources of supply.

[Illustration: OFFICERS, AVIATION DEPARTMENT, IMPERIAL MUNITIONS BOARD

J. B. CARSWELL, B.Sc., CHIEF ENGINEER.

GEO. E. WISHART, SECRETARY.

J. R. HAGELIN, ASST. CHIEF ENGINEER

G. A. MORROW, O.B.E., DIRECTOR OF AVIATION

W. B. CLELAND, SUPT. AERONAUTICAL SUPPLIES.

A. S. McNINCH, ASST. PURCHASING AGENT

A. H. MULCAHEY, PURCHASING AGENT]

[Illustration: FLYING BOAT HULL CONSTRUCTION--CANADIAN AEROPLANES
LIMITED.]

Such in brief are the fundamentals, but without further detail the
service given by the Aviation Department could not be realized. The
following notes therefore, should prove of interest.

Accounts were under the immediate direction of the Secretary. So
speedily was the Department organized that time did not afford to
investigate either the system to be adopted or the number of accounts
to be opened. Flexibility was in consequence desirable, and when in
October, 1918, a new set of ledger headings were called for by the
Air Ministry, there was neither difficulty nor delay in remodelling
the existing accounts to the new form.

The Department was authorized to make disbursements from an imprest
fund when immediate payment was necessary, but this method was only
used when unavoidable, as for instance, outlay in staff payrolls,
initial payments for leases, and in cases where a discount period
had nearly lapsed. For such outlay repayment cheque to the fund was
always subsequently issued.

The standard method of meeting obligations was by sending certified
bills to the Finance Department, Imperial Munitions Board, at Ottawa,
where cheques were issued therefor. These bills were listed in
alphabetical order, and also chronologically under each creditorâ€™s
name. Confusion of any kind was entirely avoided.

