To make the matter perfectly clear, the Royal Air Force, Canada, must
be considered as a unit operating outside the boundaries of the usual
activities of the Air Ministry, and endowed with special authority
and freedom of action, but handicapped, nevertheless, by certain
limitations, which, although greatly alleviated by the helpful
attitude of the Canadian authorities, made it imperative that extreme
care should be used both in policy and action.

It is obvious from the chapter which deals with the matter of
recruiting, that particular judgment had to be used in the means
adopted to bring the Corps up to the necessary strength, and it was
doubly important that every precaution be taken to avoid enlisting
men who were subject to the provisions of the Canadian Military
Service Act.

Only in very special cases where the applicantâ€™s qualifications made
the enlistment desirable, was any recruit signed on who came under
the provision of this Act.

The organization and formation of units was, of course, constantly
subject to fluctuations in recruiting, and that these units were so
soon brought up to workable strength, speaks well for the care given
in this respect.

The arrangements made between Brigade Headquarters and the
Department of Militia and Defence in Ottawa were all important; and
negotiations for medical service, rations, etc., etc., having been
completed with satisfaction to the Canadian government, it fell to
headquarters staff to maintain a constant and careful liaison with
the various departments involved. In addition there were also many
important conferences at Washington, these resulting in a complete
understanding between the U.S. Signal Service and the brigade,
which understanding took admirable shape in the reciprocal training
agreement so successfully carried out by the Corps in Canada and
Texas.

Responsibility for training in Canada lay with the officer of
headquarters staff on this duty, and constant touch was maintained
with Great Britain in order that the methods of the Canadian unit
might always reflect every recent advance in the system adopted.

