The composition of the Canadian units decided upon by the War Office,
varied considerably from that of units already established in
England, and, in consequence, the mobilization and equipment tables
heretofore in use proved in most respects inapplicable to Canadian
requirements. Thus there was thrown upon the Aircraft Equipment
branch the almost unprecedented duty of compiling all the data
determining every item of equipment to be supplied for carrying on
the work of the Corps.

It was provided from the first that responsibility for price and
point of purchase would be borne by the Aviation Department, and the
burden of the A.E. branch ceased when requisitions were handed to the
former. This, however it eased the situation, still left upon the
A.E. branch the constant onus of working out in detail the entire
list of engines and aeroplanes, with their multitudinous spares, and
the complicated list of stores, technical and otherwise, requisite
for the training of a continuous stream of pilots.

The records of the branch show that while the supply of machines
from the Canadian Aeroplanes factory was invariably dependable,
considerable difficulty was experienced in securing deliveries of
engines, and, on occasions, machines were sent to the wings without
engines, the latter to be installed when received.

Motor transport being carefully considered, the original orders
proved practically sufficient for all needs, and there was purchased
only about one half of the equipment officially authorized. Had
not the units at Beamsville and Hamilton been organized, the
provision made early in 1917 would have proved sufficient. In the
supply of aeroplane spares, the excellent service rendered by the
repair sections of the various flying units in making broken parts
serviceable, steadily reduced the monthly proportional outlay.

It is not possible in the scope of a page to go into the innumerable
details, the solution of which rested with the A.E. branch.
Sufficient funds were of course available, and an admirable
co√∂peration with the Aviation Department of the I.M.B. always
saved the situation--even sometimes at the last moment--but the
difficulties overcome were very serious, and there were times when
the imperative demands of the flying wings seemed almost impossible
to satisfy. Added to this, there was increased difficulty in securing
supplies after the United States entered the war and placed embargoes
on many classes of goods. In spite of all, however, flying was never
practically affected by any lack of material.

