The A.I.D. was, under another name, in actual existence in Canada
before the arrival of the Corps in January, 1917, being then engaged
in supervising the manufacture of machines made in Canada for the
Admiralty by a branch of the Curtiss Aeroplane Company situated in
Toronto. The work at that time was under the Director of Inspection
for the Imperial Ministry of Munitions.

The coming of the Royal Flying Corps to Canada, and the consequent
demand for the supply of large numbers of engines and machines, made
it advisable that the unit should reap the fullest possible advantage
by the expansion of inspection work into an organization, the first
duty of which would be vouching for the quality of aeronautical
supplies purchased. In order that the work of this Department might
be kept absolutely up to date, constant touch was maintained with the
Ministry of Munitions in Great Britain, and information regarding
every new development was invariably transmitted to Canada without
delay. Thus it has been possible that the factories in Canada
producing aeroplane material were kept modernized by the best known
methods of inspection.

It will be evident that the term inspection was something more than a
name. All raw material of every description entering any factory for
the manufacture of aeronautical supplies subject to the Aeroplane
Inspection Department, is held until a release note is given by the
latter, the release note only being issued, in the case of sheet
metal, for instance, when a sample has been taken from every sixth
sheet and analysed with satisfactory results. In the case of steel
tubing, of which a great deal is used, every tenth tube is dealt with
likewise, the same minute method being impartially applied to all
material received.

As manufacture progresses with the material which has been passed,
the manufactured parts themselves are subject to a second inspection,
and are not allowed to be sent on to the assembling department
unless up to requirements. A common sight in such factories is the
supervisorâ€™s metal cage, and it is on record that through one cage
passed no less than 150,000 metal parts in one week.

