Vision, which when abnormal causes headaches, dizziness, etc., should
be normally stereoscopic, and the accommodation perfect in at least
one eye; but while accurate color vision is considered desirable,
it is not essential providing the primary colors are correctly
recognized.

Amongst other tests adopted by the brigade are those giving the
vital lung capacity, the expiratory force, also complemental and
supplemental air, the former being the measurement of the excess
capacity of the lungs over a normal intake of air, the latter that
quantity of air remaining in the lungs after a normal expiration.

Excess of any nature is frowned on. Excessive tea or coffee drinking,
or any semblance of nicotine poisoning at once asserts itself. The
strain of instruction also produces definite phenomena, and pilots
retained for this duty are limited to three and a half hours’ flying
daily. These phenomena are watched for, and treated sanely and
sympathetically, till the individual with all his personal variations
becomes as it were a human barometer, which infallibly records the
actions and reactions of the flying man’s life.

Owing to the fact that the pioneer attempt at systematic winter
training, without regard to temperature, was undertaken during
1917-18 in Canada and successfully concluded during the severest
weather of many years, certain new problems required solution. When
it is realized that machines flew at ground temperatures as low as
-35 degrees Fah., the occurrence of frostbite and any effect of the
intense cold on the mental faculties, to the extent of producing
drowsiness and even stupor, was extremely infrequent. The flying
clothing provided, the Hawker boots, the gauntlets and chamois face
masks, which were adopted after all ointments, oils, etc., generally
in use in altitude flying, froze _in situ_, most effectually
prevented the expected difficulties, so completely indeed that during
the whole winter season no serious casualties could be traced to the
effect of the low temperatures encountered.

