[Illustration: ARMOURED LAUNCH FOR GUNNERY PRACTICE.]

[Illustration: SYNCHRONIZED VICKERS’ GUN.

SYNCHRONIZING GEAR.]

In August began the third course with sixty-six cadets and an
organization fairly complete, being forty officers and ten N.C.O.
instructors. Now, too a JN4 machine was converted to a JN4A with the
pilot in front and a Scarff mounting behind for the observer, as in
the Bristol fighter. A decided acquisition this, and a quantity were
ordered. Surprise deflection shooting was introduced. It was a busy
and interesting period.

The fourth course in September had 124 cadets. The tuition given
was of proved value. Lectures came in by the fighting instructor,
and naturally increased the pupils’ confidence. The latter were now
firing 750 rounds from the ground and 150 from the air, and the
squadron worked at high pressure to give each pupil three hours’
aerial gunnery flying--a matter of difficulty owing to the scarcity
of machines with synchronized guns. It was probably due to this that
cadets were getting too much Lewis gun observers’ work. The fault was
rectified, though the mountings were not entirely satisfactory.

The fifth course began in October with a total of 238 pupils, who
proceeded with the unit to Texas and enjoyed excellent facilities
which had been foreseen and provided. The number of available
machines increased, and were divided into C.C. gear (synchronized
gear) camera gun and turret machine flights. Actual aerial
instruction was given twenty-four hours after arrival at this far
Southern field.

The history of Royal Flying Corps gunnery in Texas is a progressive
document, too lengthy to give in detail. Here the unit had its first
target practice over water--Lake Worth proving ideal for the purpose,
and instruction was greatly aided owing to a better observation of
fire and a clearer angle of approach. In December the pupils turned
out numbered 264, an average flying time of practically five hours--a
marked improvement.

