In January the aerial work of the School was further increased. Range
work (25 yards) was taken over by the wings. All synchronized guns
were moved from the side of the cowling to the top, thus creating
active service conditions. No. 2 squadron came into being with
twelve machines, giving 30 in toto, the work being done by flights.
Two machines were converted to Canadian Gothas, with the gun firing
through the bottom of the fuselage. The output of pupils increased to
310, with average flying time of 5½ hours.

February saw the use of a good armour-plated disappearing and running
target, and cadets also fired from a cage that travelled along a
cableway between two towers, but the speed was too low to be of
value. The February output was 313 pupils. The instructing personnel
had now increased to 60 officers (50 flying), 1 warrant officer, 60
N.C.O.’s and 250 men.

March, a busy month, with 336 pupils and flying time average of 6½
hours, was a record in output and time flown.

April saw the School on its own aerodrome at Beamsville, Ontario,
where facilities were ahead of anything heretofore existing. Came as
well a third squadron. The output was 243 pupils, all R.F.C. with 7
hours and 40 minutes flying, the record time to date.

In the following month the syllabus was amended, this being the
result of a visit to England by the officer in charge of Canadian
training. All straight target shooting was abolished, and deflection
sights were introduced so as to allow for a speed of 100 m.p.h. of an
enemy machine. Small model aeroplanes were built and set up beside
the targets. At these the pupil aimed, the deflection of the gun
sights bringing his shots on to the target where their accuracy was
of course registered. No less than 17 various practices were laid
down. The improvement in ground work soon became noticeable.

[Illustration: RANGE CONSTRUCTED BY AVIATION DEPARTMENT AT
BEAMSVILLE.]

[Illustration: SHOOTING THROUGH PROPELLER.

BESIDE THE FUSELAGE.

