Such in brief is the record. The value may best be judged by the
service rendered by those who passed from the harmless silhouettes
floating on the smooth surface of Lake Ontario to engage the deadlier
machines that haunted the high altitudes over the Western front.




CAMERA GUNNERY.


Before carrying out aerial practice with machine guns, embryo pilots
and observers are required to attain a certain standard in camera gun
work, both on the ground and in the air. The camera used is designed
to resemble, both in operation and in appearance, the Lewis machine
gun, the difference being that upon the trigger being released the
camera gun registers a photograph upon a film. Reloading is by
pulling back the cocking handle, which brings another film into place.

Practices being concluded, the cadet takes his own film to the
nearest photographic sub-station, where it is developed in about ten
minutes, and, still wet, is then submitted to the instructor, who
forthwith criticizes the work of his pupil in the presence of the
latter.

The camera gun is best suited for enabling the pupil (pilot or
observer) to ascertain his proficiency in the use of deflection
sights, and his ability to place the enemy machine in correct
position in the ring, according to his line of flight. Errors in
aiming are checked by the photograph being taken through a glass
screen, this being marked with circles, each valued at seven and
a half feet taken from 200 yardsâ€™ distance, which is the distance
advised for commencing a combat. On examining the film, after
development, the instructor can explain the error in deflection or
elevation by the position of the machine in relation to the rings.

In the illustrations, these being from camera gun films, will be
noted the enemy machine as seen by the gunner through the ring sight
at the moment of firing. In the first case the aim is low and to the
right. In the second print the pupil has fired low and in front. The
encircled dot shows the point at which the gunner should have aimed
when the pilot of the target machine was flying directly toward the
inner ring at 100 miles per hour.

