With six weeks’ of wireless at the Cadet Wing, the pupil proceeded to
the School of Aeronautics for further instruction, and heard lectures
on picture target work and artillery coöperation from experienced
observers. Requirements now demanded eight words per minute. After
examination, his next step was to the elementary training wing at
either Deseronto or Borden, where he not only carried on ground work,
but also put into actual practice in the air the instruction already
received.

Moving on to North Toronto he reached the stage of final tuition in
this section of his course. At varying distances from this station,
puff targets were provided to simulate shell bursts, and the embryo
pilot conducted himself as though on active service by locating the
shoot and reporting it with necessary adjustments to the battery
receiving station. Such was the value attached to this phase of
training, that eighty per cent. of the observations sent down were
required to be correct before the pupil was considered passed. The
tests included reading ground messages, bomb dropping, etc., the
latter being checked by a camera obscura hut which was used as the
target. In this process it was necessary that the cadet adjust his
bomb sights both for the speed and altitude of his machine. This
being done, his wireless key was depressed and the actual position
of his machine recorded in the camera obscura hut at the moment of
signalling, which moment, it was understood, was the instant at which
the bomb would have been dropped were the machine in actual service.
The result recorded infallibly the amount of judgment which had
been used. Some idea of the extent of this School may be gathered
from the fact that a tour around the batteries involved a 60 mile
trip. Bomb-dropping, though having no connection with artillery
observation, was here practised as a matter of convenience.

[Illustration: POPHAM PANNEAU.

POPHAM PANNEAU.]

[Illustration: “A PUFF.”

GROUND STRIPS.]

