Rotary targets are also used, as by turning them practically the same
condition is created as that which confronts the pilot when turning
his machine in the air. These, too, represent a reproduction of
well-known sections of the Western front.

A special map was devised for contact patrol work, presenting three
distinct lines of trenches together with an equal number of groups
of headquarters, as well as machine gun pits, tanks, etc., while
wireless sending was coupled up with Aldis lamp work--the latter
requiring to be read at four words per minute.

At the conclusion of instruction of every course it was demanded
that every cadet both receive and send at a speed of eight words per
minute before being allowed to proceed with aerial tests.

[Illustration: WIRELESS IN THE FIELD.]

[Illustration: MOSAIC OF CAMP BORDEN R.A.F. AND PART OF C.E.F. AREA.

1. CANVAS MATS AND MACHINES.

2. HANGARS.

3. LANDING SQUARES.

4. MACHINE GUN SHELTER.

5. CADET CAMP.

6. SAND PATCH.

7. WOODED GROUND.

8. OFFICERSâ€™ QUARTERS.

9. RAILWAY.

10. EARTH ROAD.

11. BARRACK BLOCKS.

12. BORDEN STATION.

13. PATH.

14. GOLF COURSE.

15. QUARTERMASTER STORES.

[_Examine this photo with a glass._]
]




PHOTOGRAPHY.


The Air Force is the eye of the army, and the camera the recording
eye of the airman. It is therefore, of prime importance that aerial
photography in all its phases be mastered by the would-be pilot.
Failure cannot be risked. Too much is involved in sending machines
on long photographic reconnaissance. Their results should indicate
everything from a narrow path through enemy wire to a camouflaged
German aerodrome.

In order to secure the best type of instruction, the R.A.F. has
availed itself of the services of officers of experience on all
points. Training begins at the School of Aeronautics. Here ground
tuition is given, including everything from camera mechanism to
colour filters and panchromatic plates, from map making to mosaics,
the relative size of objects and the value of shadows in estimating
heights.

