It is admitted that the art, of instruction is difficult from the
lecture platform, but how much more arduous when weaving circles at
5,000 feet, with an invisible tyro in control. Confidence is born
quickly in these high altitudes, but since the system looks to the
instructor, rather than to the pupil, the strain on the former is
commensurate with the added advantages extended to the latter.

[Illustration: “A CENTAUR OF THE AIR.”]

[Illustration: 88TH SQUADRON--CAMP BORDEN.]

Herewith a few excerpts from an admirable syllabus issued by the Air
Ministry in this connection. They are curt, valuable and saturated
with experience:--

“Put the pupil in the pilot’s seat from the very beginning.

“Control your pupils in the air entirely by word of mouth through the
speaking tube.

“When a pupil makes a mistake in the air let him first exhaust his
own ideas of how to put things right if height permits.

“Make it a point of honour to allow pupils full control, except, of
course, in cases of emergency.

“Your greatest duty is to inspire your pupils with confidence in
themselves, in their machines and in you.

“If the weather is too bad for instruction, you should fly yourself
for the sake of the spirit it produces.

“Every time a pupil does something in the air he has never done
before he increases his confidence.

“Instructors are responsible for the crashes of their own pupils, and
the saving of a crash compensates for any amount of additional dual
control.

“Have all your machines rigged properly, and fly them frequently
yourself to see that none get into a bad condition.

“The time available during training is ample for a pupil to be made a
real pilot, provided he makes up his mind never to waste time in the
air and is taught, not left, to teach himself.”

The progress of instruction is roughly indicated below, this
sequence of manoeuvres having been developed in Canada to suit local
conditions and the general type of pupil available:--

