To reduce it to a sentence, the system of to-day turns out a pilot
who is subdivided, so to speak, into two sections. One is subjective
and does the flying. The other is objective, free for retreat or
pursuit, defence or attack or any of the countless situations of
aerial warfare which call for swift and fearless action.




SCHOOL OF SPECIAL FLYING.


The Armour Heights special course for instructors commenced on or
about April 1st, 1918, with one squadron detailed for duty. As will
be inferred, this was the direct outcome of the adoption and further
development by the R.A.F., Canada, of the method of tuition known as
the Gosport system, then in use in Great Britain.

It might be well to explain that the Armour Heights course differs
in important respects from the instruction given in England. Up till
the present, it was not considered that the JN4 machine, as used,
was capable of performing all higher manoeuvres, such as rolling,
looping, etc. It had therefore been, so to speak, set aside by the
British authorities for what might be called lower training. The
higher and more difficult evolutions had been reserved until the
pilot went overseas and was trained in the use of fast, service
machines. With the Canadian JN4, however, all the higher manoeuvres
were now performed by speed and not by engine power. This naturally
necessitated considerable dexterity of manipulation.

By the first of July, ninety-five instructors were passed out of the
School. On this date a second squadron was absorbed for the purpose
of tuition and the School of Special Flying came into existence, with
thirty-six machines and an average of twelve instructors.

At the beginning of October an output of sixty for the month was
counted on. This was lowered to forty-two, owing to the severe
epidemic of influenza then prevalent, which considerably reduced the
number of serviceable instructors.

[Illustration: OFFICERS AND STAFF--SCHOOL OF SPECIAL FLYING.]

