[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--SCHOOL OF SPECIAL FLYING--OUTPUT OF PUPILS

GRAND TOTAL 257]

The primary aim of the tuition has been to obtain smooth and correct
work and a light-handed method of flying, as it was found that when
pilots used perforce only JN4 machines they were apt to develop a
somewhat heavy touch, unless extreme care was exercised. Stunting
and contour chasing were particularly encouraged amongst instructors
and others with sufficient air experience, and since the duty of the
School was to instruct instructors, the personality of the latter was
always considered a determining factor entirely apart from ability as
a pilot.

An important duty performed by the School, was the calling in of
most of the instructors then in the brigade, in order to thoroughly
acquaint them with the new methods involved in tuition as given in
the Armour Heights course. This proved entirely justified.

It was found, also, that even in the case of most experienced pilots,
who had been flying fast machines overseas, great advantage was
secured by taking the course, since it was required that they depend
to a much greater extent upon correct flying, far more skill being
required to do higher manoeuvres on a low-powered machine.

The dual time put in by instructors who passed out for wing duty was
reduced from fourteen hours to eight hours in the course of four or
five months, as a result of better instruction at the wings, this
being indirectly due to the fact that the instructors under whom they
had flown in each squadron had themselves been through the Armour
Heights course. It was found that three hoursâ€™ solo to one hour of
dual instruction was most advantageous.

The above notes give very baldly an outline of the purpose of the
School, and it will be found necessary to take them in conjunction
with the chapter on the Armour Heights system in order that the
essential elements of this tuition may be fully realized.




FLYING ACCIDENTS.

