(2) The Aviation Section, United States Signal Corps was to provide
in Texas, and equip with all the necessary buildings, water supply,
etc., two aerodromes capable of accommodating 10 squadrons, and part
of a third for the Aerial Gunnery School; these areas to be occupied
and under the control of the R.F.C.

(3) The Aviation Section, United States Signal Corps was to provide
in Texas all aeroplanes, spares, running supplies (oil, gasoline,
etc.), office and barrack fixtures and other camp equipment. The
R.F.C. to supply gunnery, wireless and all other ground instructional
equipment.

(4) Each service would provide its own pay, clothing and
transportation, and draw rations on repayment during their stay in
each otherâ€™s country.

(5) The R.F.C. to supply all medical services in Canada, and vice
versa.

This general arrangement was found to be mutually acceptable, and it
was agreed, in addition, that the invaluable assistance of the I.M.B.
in Canada, should be continued in Texas by the establishment there of
a section of their purchasing staff.

Such was the proposal noted on the back of an envelope by the chiefs
of each service, and it was carried out by both to the letter.

The brigade was already acquainted with the splendid pilot material
available in the U.S., as many had enlisted in Canada, hoping to
reach France at the earliest possible moment. Their record lives, and
some of the success of the Corps is due to the admirable progress
they made in training. They came--studied hard, and got into the air
at every opportunity, breathless to join those forerunners whose
names were already written large.

[Illustration: CANADIAN WEATHER IN TEXAS.

TOWED TARGET FOR AERIAL GUNNERY.]

[Illustration: EVERMAN, TEXAS.

PORTION OF HICKS, TEXAS.]

Commencing early in July, 1917, the brigade received for training
from the U.S.S.C., about 1,400 enlisted men and cadets. A colonel
of the Signal Corps describes them as under-officered, unorganized,
unpaid, without records, and though one hesitates--practically
without uniforms. The immediate result for the R.F.C. was
administrative chaos, but, in due course, matters were smoothed out,
and when they returned south in the fall, they were already assuming
a semblance of entity as United States Aero Squadrons.

