The rarity of any serious engine trouble reported by the flying
wings, is a tribute not only to the admirably simple design of the
Curtiss engine, but also to the excellent work done by the Engine
Repair Park.

[Illustration: ENGINES MOUNTED FOR TEST.

THE STARTING END.

(NOTE PROTECTIVE SCREEN.)]

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--MONTHLY STRENGTH OF ENGINE REPAIR PARK]

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--ENGINE REPAIR PARK--ENGINES OVERHAULED
AND SHIPPED PER MONTH]




AEROPLANE REPAIR PARK.


This unit commenced operations as a separate organization on the 23rd
February, 1918, prior to which time both engine and aeroplane repairs
were made under the same administration. The work consisted of not
only rebuilding every machine which crashed, but also dismantling and
reassembling every aeroplane which had completed its flying time at
the various wings. The fact that 400 hours in the air was considered
to necessitate complete rebuilding, will indicate the extreme care
taken to ensure that no instructor or cadet took to the air in an
aeroplane which was not in perfect mechanical condition.

Entire dismantling was accomplished in every case, and after every
individual fitting and part had undergone various stages of repair
and inspection, it was sent forthwith to the technical stores, whence
it was reissued as required for construction of new machines. By this
means it was found feasible to salve and re-use not less than sixty
per cent. of the members and fittings of every machine received by
the unit.

In the early summer of 1918, the output of the Aeroplane Repair Park
(the quality of this output being always entirely satisfactory)
reached such a point that the brigade found it unnecessary to
continue the practice of buying complete machines from the Canadian
Aeroplanes Limited, and the latter undertook to supply only such
individual parts as the Repair Park was not equipped to make for
itself. Thus this organization proved its constantly increasing
importance.

