A glance at the exterior of a machine gives no idea whatever of the
number of integral parts which go to make up a structure seemingly so
simple, and the fact that the parts are so numerous threw additional
work on the stores section, which was required at all times to keep
in stock an ample supply of members and fittings.

In addition to the work of salvaging machines, the unit had other
duties to perform, such as the repair of instruments, tires,
inner-tubes, radiators, metal fittings, wings, etc. The aeroplane
when dismantled presents a vastly different appearance to that of the
complete machine ready to take the air.

In all construction the progressive system was worked out, by which
machines, commencing at the first stage, moved on from section to
section, receiving at each point the necessary additional touches,
till at the end they emerged mechanically complete. The work was, in
fact exactly like that at the Canadian Aeroplanes Limited, with the
exception that in addition to new construction this unit shouldered
as well the system of salvaging, by which great economies were
without question effected. Over and above this, there went out from
the Repair Park a constantly increasing flow of wooden members, which
were absorbed by various flying units in repairs made on wings and
ailerons at these stations.

Two graphs, given herewith, show the fluctuation in the quantity of
work done, this fluctuation corresponding with demands made. These
will be found to synchronize closely with other data giving the
record of crashes, etc.

In a retrospection of the general operations of the brigade it has
been impossible to find a scene of operations better organized than
this Repair Park, or one of which the output was more uniformly
dependable and mechanically satisfactory.

[Illustration: MAN HOUR PRODUCTION]

[Illustration: MACHINES PASSED THROUGH

R.A.F. CAN.--AEROPLANE REPAIR PARK]

[Illustration: OFFICERS AND STAFF--AEROPLANE REPAIR PARK.]

