Hundreds of acres of sandy soil were sown with grass seed, thousands
of stumps were uprooted and numberless hillocks levelled. An
excellent road system, a first rate water supply and electrical
system were all provided, together with special telephone
communication to Toronto and neighboring towns.

The type of building adopted was retained for all subsequent
construction, and has proved to give a maximum of comfort with a
minimum of expense.

[Illustration: OFFICERS AND STRENGTH, 44TH WING, CAMP BORDEN.]

[Illustration: OFFICERS, 44TH WING, CAMP BORDEN.]

At the close of hostilities, Camp Borden had accommodation for 122
officers, 500 cadets, 120 warrant officers and sergeants, and 900
rank and file. A few illustrations of typical buildings are
given, together with photographs of the strength at the cessation of
hostilities.

The surrounding country is level, and affords many opportunities for
landing. To the north stretches the great expanse of Lake Huron, to
the east lies Lake Simcoe, and 50 miles to the south is the shore of
Lake Ontario. To those who visited Borden when the air was full of
machines, there has always been something peculiarily fascinating
in the wide, clear skies and unquestionable atmosphere of space and
height which is noticeable.

During its occupancy, the 44th Wing did much to improve the camp,
and the energetic measures taken by the officer commanding for the
comfort and enjoyment of his unit will long be remembered. A large
concrete swimming pool, 100 feet by 40 feet was built, a cement
tennis court of exceptional excellence was constructed, and a golf
course of 9 holes laid down by first rate professionals, arrangements
being made whereby, for the expenditure of a few cents, all could
enjoy this most inviting of sports. Games, football and all types of
physical exercise were indulged in, and it was impossible to find
within the boundaries of the corps a more complete programme of
physical relaxation.

