The cost of alterations, repairs and various additions which
completed the attractive charm of Longwood was borne by the strength
of the R.A.F.,--$9,800 being raised in voluntary subscriptions from
all ranks, and by the sale of waste paper from the various units.
Altogether over 850 men have been privileged to convalesce in this
admirable institution, and not once has there been any slackening of
effort in the valuable service rendered by Mrs. Beatty and the ladies
of the Canadian Aviation Aid Club.

Other work of the Club covered an extension of branch organization
in most towns and cities in Canada, where appeals for donations were
sent out and met with a generous response in comforts and money.
Since the Club was affiliated with the R.A.F. Air Committee in
London, England, a special effort was made to aid its endeavors, and
a sum of nearly $7,000 had been forwarded to parent headquarters in
England by the middle of August, 1918. This was subdivided between
the R.A.F. Hospital, the Prisonerâ€™s Fund and the Comfort Fund.

The King Street Hostess House, organized by private individuals, was
a down-town rallying point for men in both American and Imperial
services, and the cadets and airmen of the brigade comprised a great
majority of the visitors.

Mrs. Chester Martin and Mrs. Martin Jones, the wife and daughter of
the American Consul at Toronto, and Mrs. Ransom, associated with
themselves a number of ladies whose voluntary duty it was to make the
place exceptionally attractive, and to minister to practically all
the needs of uniformed visitors.

The Aero Club of Canada, originated with the visit to the Dominion
of the late Colonel C. J. Burke, D.S.O., R.F.C., in 1915, and a
recommendation made by him that an organization be formed to control
the granting of aeronautical certificates.

In July, 1915, the late Colonel William Hamilton Merritt had an
audience with the Dominion Government at Ottawa and was then assured
that every official facility would be given to any organization which
might aid the Naval and Military authorities in Canada in securing
trained pilots. From this interview developed the formation of the
Aviation Fund, and later arose the Aero Club of Canada. It was
incorporated in December, 1916, and the by-laws adopted at its first
meeting provided that all flying officers of the Allies in Canada be
made honorary members if they so desired. The first annual meeting
took place on March 14th, 1918.

