*       *       *       *       *

It had been our intention when building the machine to do most of the
experimenting in the following manner:--When the wind blew 17 miles an
hour, or more, we would attach a rope to the machine and let it rise as
a kite with the operator upon it. When it should reach a proper height
the operator would cast off the rope and glide down to the ground just
as from the top of a hill. In this way we would be saved the trouble of
carrying the machine uphill after each glide, and could make at least 10
glides in the time required for one in the other way. But when we came
to try it we found that a wind of 17 miles, as measured by Richards'
anemometer, instead of sustaining the machine with its operator, a total
weight of 240 lbs., at an angle of incidence of three degrees, in
reality would not sustain the machine alone--100 lbs.--at this angle.
Its lifting capacity seemed scarcely one-third of the calculated amount.
In order to make sure that this was not due to the porosity of the
cloth, we constructed two small experimental surfaces of equal size, one
of which was air-proofed and the other left in its natural state; but we
could detect no difference in their lifting powers. For a time we were
led to suspect that the lift of curved surfaces little exceeded that of
planes of the same size, but further investigation and experiment led to
the opinion that (1) the anemometer used by us over-recorded the true
velocity of the wind by nearly 15 per cent.; (2) that the well-known
Smeaton coefficient of .005 V^2 for the wind pressure at 90 degrees is
probably too great by at least 20 per cent.; (3) that Lilienthal's
estimate that the pressure on a curved surface having an angle of
incidence of three degrees equals .545 of the pressure at 90 degrees is
too large, being nearly 50 per cent. greater than very recent
experiments of our own with a special pressure testing machine indicate;
(4) that the superposition of the surfaces somewhat reduced the lift per
square foot, as compared with a single surface of equal area.

